website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Extending Waypoint
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes a server to enable collaboration with other team members, storing operation history, and enabling functionality such as logs, exec, and more.
---

# How Waypoint Plugins Work

Plugins in Waypoint are separate binaries which communicate with the Waypoint application; the plugin communicates using
gRPC. While it is theoretically possible to build a plugin in any language supported by the gRPC framework, we
recommend that the developers leverage the [Waypoint SDK](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk) for Go to
perform this task.

In this section, you will find reference documentation for creating plugins, if you would like to jump straight in and
start making a plugin; please check out the [Creating Waypoint Plugins Guide](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins).

## Concepts

Conceptually Waypoint Plugins can be defined using the following terms:

- `Plugin` - A Plugin is a compiled binary containing one or more Components which are executed by the Waypoint
  application
- `Component` - A Component handles part of the Waypoint application lifecycle, i.e. Build, Deploy, etc. Components are
  created by implementing various interfaces
- `Interface` - An interface implements specific behavior in a Component, i.e., Configurable, ReleaseManager
- `Output Value` - A Protocol Buffer serializable type which can be passed between components.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Extending Waypoint
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes a server to enable collaboration with other team members, storing operation history, and enabling functionality such as logs, exec, and more.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# How Waypoint Plugins Work

Plugins in Waypoint are separate binaries which communicate with the Waypoint application; the plugin communicates using
gRPC. While it is theoretically possible to build a plugin in any language supported by the gRPC framework, we
recommend that the developers leverage the [Waypoint SDK](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk) for Go to
perform this task.

In this section, you will find reference documentation for creating plugins, if you would like to jump straight in and
start making a plugin; please check out the [Creating Waypoint Plugins Guide](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins).

## Concepts

Conceptually Waypoint Plugins can be defined using the following terms:

- `Plugin` - A Plugin is a compiled binary containing one or more Components which are executed by the Waypoint
  application
- `Component` - A Component handles part of the Waypoint application lifecycle, i.e. Build, Deploy, etc. Components are
  created by implementing various interfaces
- `Interface` - An interface implements specific behavior in a Component, i.e., Configurable, ReleaseManager
- `Output Value` - A Protocol Buffer serializable type which can be passed between components.
