website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/passing-values.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Passing Values'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

# Passing Values Between Components

To pass values between components, you can ask Waypoint to inject a previous component's Output Value. For example, the
next component after the `Builder` is the `Registry` component. The following code snippet shows that by defining a
parameter for the `Binary` type, Waypoint automatically injects the reference to the `Binary` type that was output from
the `Builder` component.

```go
func (r *Registry) PushFunc() interface{} {
  return r.push
}

func (r *Registry) push(
  ctx context.Context,
  log hclog.Logger,
  ui terminal.UI,
  b *build.Binary,
) (*Artifact, error) {
  return nil, nil
}
```

Output Values like `build.Binary` returned by the `push` function need to be serializable to the Protocol Buffer binary
format. To enable this, rather than define data models as structs in Go, you create Protocol Buffer definitions and
generate the Go code using the `protoc` tool.

Let’s look at `build.Binary` and see how it is defined. Protocol Buffer files are commonly defined in files with the
extension `.proto`.

The first line in a Protocol Buffer file is the `syntax` definition; this is set to `proto3` to use the Protocol Buffers
version three.

```go
syntax = "proto3";
```

Then you define the Protocol Buffers `package`; in this example, the package is set to `builder`, which is the same package
as the component.

```go
package builder;
```

You can then specify the `go_package`; this again is set to the same package where the component is defined but uses the
full go package reference.

```go
option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/golang/builder";
```

Finally, you can define the message, if you have not used Protocol Buffers before, conceptually a struct in Go is a
message in Protocol Buffers. Defining the `build.Binary` Output Value looks like the following. A message `Binary` is
defined, which has a single field `path`.

```go
message Binary {
  string path = 1;
}
```

When the Go code a generated, the previous message will create a Go struct, which looks like the following.

```go
type Binary struct {
  Path string
}
```

The full example can be seen below.

```go
syntax = "proto3";

package builder;

option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/golang/builder";

message Binary {
  string path = 1;
}
```

To generate the Go code you use the protoc command setting the correct flags. The `--go_opt=plugins=grpc:./` flag specifies
that you want to use the Go gRPC plugin to generate the code, and that the output directory for the generated code will be `.`

By default the go plugin for gRPC uses the `go_package` path and the output directory specfied in the
`-go_opt` flag as the location for the generated code. You can change this behaviour by setting the flag
`--go_opt=paths=source_relative`. The generated code will now be created at a path relative to the intput proto file.

Finally, you specify the proto files you would like to generate code for; this is the `plugin.proto` file in the current
directory.

```shell
protoc -I . --go_out=plugins=grpc:. --go_opt=paths=source_relative ./output.proto
```

If successful, the command will not output any text but generates a file called `output.pb.go` in the same directory as
the `output.proto` file.

The `output.proto` file contains the struct definition for the `Binary` message and the code that enables the serialization of
the model to the Protocol Buffer binary format. This file should `never` be manually edited, if you need to make changes
to your Output Type, you should always modify the `.proto` file and regenerate the Go code using the protoc command.

Full information on defining messages using Protocol Buffers can be found in the following document.

https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/passing-values.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Passing Values'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Passing Values Between Components

To pass values between components, you can ask Waypoint to inject a previous component's Output Value. For example, the
next component after the `Builder` is the `Registry` component. The following code snippet shows that by defining a
parameter for the `Binary` type, Waypoint automatically injects the reference to the `Binary` type that was output from
the `Builder` component.

```go
func (r *Registry) PushFunc() interface{} {
  return r.push
}

func (r *Registry) push(
  ctx context.Context,
  log hclog.Logger,
  ui terminal.UI,
  b *build.Binary,
) (*Artifact, error) {
  return nil, nil
}
```

Output Values like `build.Binary` returned by the `push` function need to be serializable to the Protocol Buffer binary
format. To enable this, rather than define data models as structs in Go, you create Protocol Buffer definitions and
generate the Go code using the `protoc` tool.

Let’s look at `build.Binary` and see how it is defined. Protocol Buffer files are commonly defined in files with the
extension `.proto`.

The first line in a Protocol Buffer file is the `syntax` definition; this is set to `proto3` to use the Protocol Buffers
version three.

```go
syntax = "proto3";
```

Then you define the Protocol Buffers `package`; in this example, the package is set to `builder`, which is the same package
as the component.

```go
package builder;
```

You can then specify the `go_package`; this again is set to the same package where the component is defined but uses the
full go package reference.

```go
option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/golang/builder";
```

Finally, you can define the message, if you have not used Protocol Buffers before, conceptually a struct in Go is a
message in Protocol Buffers. Defining the `build.Binary` Output Value looks like the following. A message `Binary` is
defined, which has a single field `path`.

```go
message Binary {
  string path = 1;
}
```

When the Go code a generated, the previous message will create a Go struct, which looks like the following.

```go
type Binary struct {
  Path string
}
```

The full example can be seen below.

```go
syntax = "proto3";

package builder;

option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/golang/builder";

message Binary {
  string path = 1;
}
```

To generate the Go code you use the protoc command setting the correct flags. The `--go_opt=plugins=grpc:./` flag specifies
that you want to use the Go gRPC plugin to generate the code, and that the output directory for the generated code will be `.`

By default the go plugin for gRPC uses the `go_package` path and the output directory specfied in the
`-go_opt` flag as the location for the generated code. You can change this behaviour by setting the flag
`--go_opt=paths=source_relative`. The generated code will now be created at a path relative to the intput proto file.

Finally, you specify the proto files you would like to generate code for; this is the `plugin.proto` file in the current
directory.

```shell
protoc -I . --go_out=plugins=grpc:. --go_opt=paths=source_relative ./output.proto
```

If successful, the command will not output any text but generates a file called `output.pb.go` in the same directory as
the `output.proto` file.

The `output.proto` file contains the struct definition for the `Binary` message and the code that enables the serialization of
the model to the Protocol Buffer binary format. This file should `never` be manually edited, if you need to make changes
to your Output Type, you should always modify the `.proto` file and regenerate the Go code using the protoc command.

Full information on defining messages using Protocol Buffers can be found in the following document.

https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3
