website/content/docs/server/auth.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Server Authentication
description: |-
  All connections to the Waypoint server via the CLI or UI require authentication. Waypoint supports authentication using an API token or via OpenID Connect (OIDC).
---

# Server Authentication

All connections to the Waypoint server via the CLI or UI require authentication.
Waypoint supports authentication using an API token or via OpenID Connect (OIDC).
OIDC allows Waypoint to use existing accounts from providers such as Google,
Okta, GitLab, and more.

If you're a new user that ran `waypoint install`, the auth token was automatically
configured for your local CLI. As a next step, we recomend
[setting up OIDC](/waypoint/docs/server/auth/oidc).

## Logging In

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI">

To log in in the Waypoint UI, open the UI in your browser and follow
the onscreen instructions.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CLI">

To log in using either a token or OIDC, use the
[waypoint login](/waypoint/commands/login) command. Specify the address to the
Waypoint server as the argument:

```shell-session
$ waypoint login 127.0.0.1:9701
...
```

If the server is configured to use OIDC, then this will open your browser
to complete authentication. Otherwise, the command will prompt you for
your token by asking you to specify the `-token` flag. After successfully
logging in, your CLI is configured with your authentication information.

For automation-based workflows, you may also set the `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR` and
`WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` environment variables. This will be used instead of
any current saved auth information if it is present.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Invite Teammates

If using OIDC, other teammates can attempt to authenticate using the
UI or `waypoint login`. This will create a new account if they're allowed to
authenticate.

For tokens, use the
[waypoint user invite](/waypoint/commands/user-invite) CLI command with
the `-username` flag. This will create an invite token that can be exchanged
for a token for a specific user.

To invite a new user `alice`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint user invite -username=alice
svESKuVYKeLkgFP3heNanrhvwiMfxfM7q7d3m8UTU3fTDwetfq9vMsBtdqeRmKakXZXJjLDinApxkDcVe594vR2FfVeF3m6gupZ8NVcSC
```

After giving Alice the invite token, they can setup their account using
the standard `waypoint login` flow.

## Revoke, Inspect, etc.

Waypoint currently doesn't have any mechanism to revoke sessions,
audit token usage, inspect existing sessions, etc. We plan on expanding
our authentication system to support this in the future.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/server/auth.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Server Authentication
description: |-
  All connections to the Waypoint server via the CLI or UI require authentication. Waypoint supports authentication using an API token or via OpenID Connect (OIDC).
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Server Authentication

All connections to the Waypoint server via the CLI or UI require authentication.
Waypoint supports authentication using an API token or via OpenID Connect (OIDC).
OIDC allows Waypoint to use existing accounts from providers such as Google,
Okta, GitLab, and more.

If you're a new user that ran `waypoint install`, the auth token was automatically
configured for your local CLI. As a next step, we recomend
[setting up OIDC](/waypoint/docs/server/auth/oidc).

## Logging In

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI">

To log in in the Waypoint UI, open the UI in your browser and follow
the onscreen instructions.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CLI">

To log in using either a token or OIDC, use the
[waypoint login](/waypoint/commands/login) command. Specify the address to the
Waypoint server as the argument:

```shell-session
$ waypoint login 127.0.0.1:9701
...
```

If the server is configured to use OIDC, then this will open your browser
to complete authentication. Otherwise, the command will prompt you for
your token by asking you to specify the `-token` flag. After successfully
logging in, your CLI is configured with your authentication information.

For automation-based workflows, you may also set the `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR` and
`WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` environment variables. This will be used instead of
any current saved auth information if it is present.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Invite Teammates

If using OIDC, other teammates can attempt to authenticate using the
UI or `waypoint login`. This will create a new account if they're allowed to
authenticate.

For tokens, use the
[waypoint user invite](/waypoint/commands/user-invite) CLI command with
the `-username` flag. This will create an invite token that can be exchanged
for a token for a specific user.

To invite a new user `alice`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint user invite -username=alice
svESKuVYKeLkgFP3heNanrhvwiMfxfM7q7d3m8UTU3fTDwetfq9vMsBtdqeRmKakXZXJjLDinApxkDcVe594vR2FfVeF3m6gupZ8NVcSC
```

After giving Alice the invite token, they can setup their account using
the standard `waypoint login` flow.

## Revoke, Inspect, etc.

Waypoint currently doesn't have any mechanism to revoke sessions,
audit token usage, inspect existing sessions, etc. We plan on expanding
our authentication system to support this in the future.
