website/content/docs/automating-execution/github-actions.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Integrating Waypoint with GitHub Actions
description: |-
  How to utilize Waypoint in a GitHub development workflow and
  with GitHub Actions
---

# Integrating Waypoint with GitHub Actions

Running Waypoint and GitHub Actions takes minimal setup and configuration due to
a set of GitHub Actions provided to automatically install and run Waypoint. Waypoint
can also be configured via these actions to automatically annotate pull requests
and commits with relevant statuses of builds, deploys, and releases.

There are two options for utilizing Waypoint and GitHub actions.

## hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint

This action sets up Waypoint based on version. This action can be
composed with other steps to run Waypoint, and is currently
the recommended approach.

For example, a cloud provider credentials or tooling can be installed or configured before
running Waypoint, ensuring it has the appropriate credentials in the environment to run.

The source is available on GitHub at [hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint](https://github.com/hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint).

### Example

```yaml
env:
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN }}
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR: waypoint.example.com:9701
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS: 1
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY: 1

steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - uses: hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint
    with:
      version: '0.1.0'
- run: waypoint init
- run: waypoint build
```

## hashicorp/action-waypoint

~> Note: This is an experiment and isn't recommended for consistent usage.
For anything beyond experimental, we recommend using action-setup-waypoint.

This action provides an abstraction for working with Waypoint and the GitHub releases and commit
statuses APIs. It is intended to be the easiest way to automatically deploy applications
with GitHub and Waypoint, only requiring that you are running a Waypoint server and have
configured actions as in the below example.

This results in an experience in a pull request similar to the below screenshot.

![GitHub Action screenshot](/img/github-action.png)

The source is available on GitHub at [hashicorp/action-waypoint](https://github.com/hashicorp/action-waypoint).

### Example

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Setup
    with:
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      waypoint_server_address: 'waypoint.example.com:9701'
      waypoint_server_ui: 'https://waypoint.example.com:9702'
      waypoint_server_token: ${{ secrets.WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Build
    with:
      operation: build
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Deploy
    with:
      operation: deploy
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Release
    if: ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' }}
    with:
      operation: release
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/automating-execution/github-actions.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Integrating Waypoint with GitHub Actions
description: |-
  How to utilize Waypoint in a GitHub development workflow and
  with GitHub Actions
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Integrating Waypoint with GitHub Actions

Running Waypoint and GitHub Actions takes minimal setup and configuration due to
a set of GitHub Actions provided to automatically install and run Waypoint. Waypoint
can also be configured via these actions to automatically annotate pull requests
and commits with relevant statuses of builds, deploys, and releases.

There are two options for utilizing Waypoint and GitHub actions.

## hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint

This action sets up Waypoint based on version. This action can be
composed with other steps to run Waypoint, and is currently
the recommended approach.

For example, a cloud provider credentials or tooling can be installed or configured before
running Waypoint, ensuring it has the appropriate credentials in the environment to run.

The source is available on GitHub at [hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint](https://github.com/hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint).

### Example

```yaml
env:
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN }}
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR: waypoint.example.com:9701
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS: 1
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY: 1

steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - uses: hashicorp/action-setup-waypoint
    with:
      version: '0.1.0'
- run: waypoint init
- run: waypoint build
```

## hashicorp/action-waypoint

~> Note: This is an experiment and isn't recommended for consistent usage.
For anything beyond experimental, we recommend using action-setup-waypoint.

This action provides an abstraction for working with Waypoint and the GitHub releases and commit
statuses APIs. It is intended to be the easiest way to automatically deploy applications
with GitHub and Waypoint, only requiring that you are running a Waypoint server and have
configured actions as in the below example.

This results in an experience in a pull request similar to the below screenshot.

![GitHub Action screenshot](/img/github-action.png)

The source is available on GitHub at [hashicorp/action-waypoint](https://github.com/hashicorp/action-waypoint).

### Example

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Setup
    with:
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      waypoint_server_address: 'waypoint.example.com:9701'
      waypoint_server_ui: 'https://waypoint.example.com:9702'
      waypoint_server_token: ${{ secrets.WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Build
    with:
      operation: build
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Deploy
    with:
      operation: deploy
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
  - uses: hashicorp/action-waypoint
    name: Release
    if: ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' }}
    with:
      operation: release
      version: '0.0.1-beta1'
      github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      workspace: default
```
