website/content/docs/automating-execution/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Automating Execution of Waypoint
description: |-
  An overview of how to automate the execution of Waypoint in remote systems
---

# Automating Execution of Waypoint

Your team may want to automate the execution of Waypoint as your
build and deployment tool, based on triggers such as a commit to a VCS
provider, a chat-based workflow, or on-demand in a specific environment.

The best option for automating execution is to use Waypoint's native
[Git integration](/waypoint/docs/projects/git). This will watch a Git repository and
run a `waypoint up` whenever a change is detected. This is the recommended
approach.

You may also choose to run the `waypoint` CLI in an environment other
than a local developer macine, and this is perfectly fine.
For example, if you currently have a deployment tool or script that runs on a
remote machine based on a trigger, you could,
in place of that, run Waypoint by invoking it in
the existing script or system to gradually adopt it.

~> **The recommended way to run Waypoint remotely** is through the
Waypoint [Git integration](/waypoint/docs/projects/git). We recommend trying that
approach first and only scripting the `waypoint` CLI if that approach does
not work for you.

## Environment Variables

In a remote execution environment, as with a local workstation, the Waypoint
binary will need access to the [Waypoint server](/waypoint/docs/server). Locally, it is recommended
that developers create [contexts](/waypoint/docs/server#connecting) to store information about the remote
Waypoint server. In a remote environment, this may make less sense given the
environments are often ephemeral. In this scenario, we recommend using environment variables
to configure the server.

Below is a list of commonly used environment variables for remote execution. These variables
configure the Waypoint CLI for communication with the Waypoint server.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN`. Must be set to a Waypoint token, created with [`waypoint user token`](/waypoint/commands/user-token)
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR`. The address to the Waypoint server gRPC address. This must
  be accessible from the network that the client is running on.
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS`. Should be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") to configure the client to use TLS when
  connecting to the server.
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY`. Current must be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") to disable TLS verification
  when communicating with the server.

~> The Waypoint server token is sensitive and should be
treated as a password and protected accordingly.

## Init

The [`waypoint init` command](/waypoint/commands/init) is still required in remote environments, and must be
run in the environment ahead of other Waypoint commands such as `up`. This
command can be run multiple times safely.

In a scenario where you are running `build`, `deploy`, and `release` in discrete steps,
it may make sense to run `init` once followed by those commands, or if each of the commands
are run in ephemeral or potentially ephemeral environments, to ensure `init` is called
each time. A helpful side-effect of `init` is that it will validate the Waypoint
configuration, connection to the server, and will ensure that everything is set-up to
properly execute the operation. Any remote system executing this command should
make the output easily accessible to users upon failure.

## Output Formatting

If Waypoint detects that the terminal does not support interactivity it will output a
simpler "non-interactive" output mode. This output is easier to consume in
a CI/CD systems logging views, or through log archiving systems. This is automatic
and does not need to be explicitly configured, but can be forced by setting
the environment variable `WAYPOINT_PLAIN` to a truthy value (e.g. "1").

## Workspaces

When automating Waypoint, it is important to keep in mind that
all commands will use the default workspace unless otherwise specified.

In a scenario where there are multiple developers triggering remote
execution of Waypoint, it may be important to consider the effect
this could have while all working out of the [`default` workspace](/waypoint/docs/workspaces).

For example, if integrating with a VCS system such as GitHub, an additional
branch may have a new feature that you would not want released in the default
workspace, but that same developer will want to validate their work in a
deployment, and possibly a released deployment, depending on the platform.

In this scenario, it is best to use additional [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces). These
can be configured, as they are locally, at invocation time from the CLI. A common
pattern for this might be to utilize a git branch in a name of a workspace.

For example:

```shell-session
$ waypoint up -workspace $(git symbolic-ref HEAD)
```

This would run a build in a new workspace (eg. `refs/heads/f-new-feature`) and
deploy and release against resources not used in the default workspace.

## Labels

In order to determine the source of a build or other operation, it can be
very useful to utilize labels. Often, these environments might provide
labels that can be useful to annotate an operation with.

Labels can be specified as arguments to the main operation commands.

For example:

```shell-session
$ waypoint deploy -label git_sha=$GITHUB_SHA -label build_id=$BUILD_ID -label build_hostname=$(hostname)
```

## Locking

Waypoint locks operations based on a tuple of (project, app, workspace). If multiple operations
are created (eg. `waypoint build`) they will automatically queue.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/automating-execution/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Automating Execution of Waypoint
description: |-
  An overview of how to automate the execution of Waypoint in remote systems
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Automating Execution of Waypoint

Your team may want to automate the execution of Waypoint as your
build and deployment tool, based on triggers such as a commit to a VCS
provider, a chat-based workflow, or on-demand in a specific environment.

The best option for automating execution is to use Waypoint's native
[Git integration](/waypoint/docs/projects/git). This will watch a Git repository and
run a `waypoint up` whenever a change is detected. This is the recommended
approach.

You may also choose to run the `waypoint` CLI in an environment other
than a local developer macine, and this is perfectly fine.
For example, if you currently have a deployment tool or script that runs on a
remote machine based on a trigger, you could,
in place of that, run Waypoint by invoking it in
the existing script or system to gradually adopt it.

~> **The recommended way to run Waypoint remotely** is through the
Waypoint [Git integration](/waypoint/docs/projects/git). We recommend trying that
approach first and only scripting the `waypoint` CLI if that approach does
not work for you.

## Environment Variables

In a remote execution environment, as with a local workstation, the Waypoint
binary will need access to the [Waypoint server](/waypoint/docs/server). Locally, it is recommended
that developers create [contexts](/waypoint/docs/server#connecting) to store information about the remote
Waypoint server. In a remote environment, this may make less sense given the
environments are often ephemeral. In this scenario, we recommend using environment variables
to configure the server.

Below is a list of commonly used environment variables for remote execution. These variables
configure the Waypoint CLI for communication with the Waypoint server.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN`. Must be set to a Waypoint token, created with [`waypoint user token`](/waypoint/commands/user-token)
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR`. The address to the Waypoint server gRPC address. This must
  be accessible from the network that the client is running on.
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS`. Should be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") to configure the client to use TLS when
  connecting to the server.
- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY`. Current must be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") to disable TLS verification
  when communicating with the server.

~> The Waypoint server token is sensitive and should be
treated as a password and protected accordingly.

## Init

The [`waypoint init` command](/waypoint/commands/init) is still required in remote environments, and must be
run in the environment ahead of other Waypoint commands such as `up`. This
command can be run multiple times safely.

In a scenario where you are running `build`, `deploy`, and `release` in discrete steps,
it may make sense to run `init` once followed by those commands, or if each of the commands
are run in ephemeral or potentially ephemeral environments, to ensure `init` is called
each time. A helpful side-effect of `init` is that it will validate the Waypoint
configuration, connection to the server, and will ensure that everything is set-up to
properly execute the operation. Any remote system executing this command should
make the output easily accessible to users upon failure.

## Output Formatting

If Waypoint detects that the terminal does not support interactivity it will output a
simpler "non-interactive" output mode. This output is easier to consume in
a CI/CD systems logging views, or through log archiving systems. This is automatic
and does not need to be explicitly configured, but can be forced by setting
the environment variable `WAYPOINT_PLAIN` to a truthy value (e.g. "1").

## Workspaces

When automating Waypoint, it is important to keep in mind that
all commands will use the default workspace unless otherwise specified.

In a scenario where there are multiple developers triggering remote
execution of Waypoint, it may be important to consider the effect
this could have while all working out of the [`default` workspace](/waypoint/docs/workspaces).

For example, if integrating with a VCS system such as GitHub, an additional
branch may have a new feature that you would not want released in the default
workspace, but that same developer will want to validate their work in a
deployment, and possibly a released deployment, depending on the platform.

In this scenario, it is best to use additional [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces). These
can be configured, as they are locally, at invocation time from the CLI. A common
pattern for this might be to utilize a git branch in a name of a workspace.

For example:

```shell-session
$ waypoint up -workspace $(git symbolic-ref HEAD)
```

This would run a build in a new workspace (eg. `refs/heads/f-new-feature`) and
deploy and release against resources not used in the default workspace.

## Labels

In order to determine the source of a build or other operation, it can be
very useful to utilize labels. Often, these environments might provide
labels that can be useful to annotate an operation with.

Labels can be specified as arguments to the main operation commands.

For example:

```shell-session
$ waypoint deploy -label git_sha=$GITHUB_SHA -label build_id=$BUILD_ID -label build_hostname=$(hostname)
```

## Locking

Waypoint locks operations based on a tuple of (project, app, workspace). If multiple operations
are created (eg. `waypoint build`) they will automatically queue.
