website/content/docs/automating-execution/jenkins.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Integrating Waypoint with Jenkins
description: |-
  How to utilize Waypoint with Jenkins as the service to run
  Waypoint to build and deploy applications
---

# Integrating Waypoint with Jenkins

Using Waypoint to deploy an application from within Jenkins
is similar to how you might deploy an application from your own
workspace.

Your Jenkins runner must have Waypoint installed to execute it in a step.
This can be accomplished by installing Waypoint on the runner
using the standard installation instructions such as from the Waypoint
`apt` repository. In addition, any dependencies such as authentication details or anything
else required by Waypoint plugins must be available in the
execution environment.

Note that this example assumes use of
a [declarative pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#declarative-pipeline).

~> Note: The Waypoint server authentication variables here are inlined but it is recommended to set the secret
environment variables in a secure fashion such as [credentials binding](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/credentials-binding/)

## Workspaces

This example assumes the use of a single default workspace. If this was in a job triggered
by a GitHub commit or pull request and may be an ephemeral development environment, you may
want to interpolate the relevant Git ref for the workspace parameter using
something like the [git parameter](https://plugins.jenkins.io/git-parameter/) plugin, as demonstrated below:

```groovy
stage('waypoint build') {
    steps {
        sh 'waypoint build -workspace "${params.BRANCH}"'
    }
}
```

## Example

```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any

    // Assumes you are deploying a Node.js application
    tools { nodejs "default" }

    environment {
        WAYPOINT_VERSION = '0.1.0'
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR = ''
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN = ''
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS = '1'
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY = '1'
    }

    stages {
        stage('waypoint init') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint init'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint build') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint build'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint deploy') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint deploy'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint release') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint release'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/automating-execution/jenkins.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Integrating Waypoint with Jenkins
description: |-
  How to utilize Waypoint with Jenkins as the service to run
  Waypoint to build and deploy applications
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Integrating Waypoint with Jenkins

Using Waypoint to deploy an application from within Jenkins
is similar to how you might deploy an application from your own
workspace.

Your Jenkins runner must have Waypoint installed to execute it in a step.
This can be accomplished by installing Waypoint on the runner
using the standard installation instructions such as from the Waypoint
`apt` repository. In addition, any dependencies such as authentication details or anything
else required by Waypoint plugins must be available in the
execution environment.

Note that this example assumes use of
a [declarative pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#declarative-pipeline).

~> Note: The Waypoint server authentication variables here are inlined but it is recommended to set the secret
environment variables in a secure fashion such as [credentials binding](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/credentials-binding/)

## Workspaces

This example assumes the use of a single default workspace. If this was in a job triggered
by a GitHub commit or pull request and may be an ephemeral development environment, you may
want to interpolate the relevant Git ref for the workspace parameter using
something like the [git parameter](https://plugins.jenkins.io/git-parameter/) plugin, as demonstrated below:

```groovy
stage('waypoint build') {
    steps {
        sh 'waypoint build -workspace "${params.BRANCH}"'
    }
}
```

## Example

```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any

    // Assumes you are deploying a Node.js application
    tools { nodejs "default" }

    environment {
        WAYPOINT_VERSION = '0.1.0'
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR = ''
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN = ''
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS = '1'
        WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY = '1'
    }

    stages {
        stage('waypoint init') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint init'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint build') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint build'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint deploy') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint deploy'
            }
        }

        stage('waypoint release') {
            steps {
                sh 'waypoint release'
            }
        }
    }
}
```
