website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/container-build.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - Building Container Images
description: |-
  Waypoint incorporates a first-class build step that can be used to build your container images and other artifacts. This page will focus on container (or Docker) images, since these are the primary deployment artifact that Kubernetes uses.
---

# Building Container Images

Waypoint incorporates a first-class [build](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build) step that
can be used to build your container images and other artifacts. This page will
focus on container (or Docker) images, since these are the primary deployment
artifact that Kubernetes uses.

Often one of the first challenges when setting up a new application is answering
two questions: how do I build my application? and how do I get the result of my
build plumbed into my deployment configuration? Waypoint solves both of these
by incorporating configuration for both build and deploys into the
[waypoint.hcl file](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl).

-> **The built-in build functionality is optional.** If you have an external
process already setup to build your images, you can
[use externally-built images](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/external-build). Waypoint
just needs to know about some sort of artifact, whether it is responsible
for building it or not.

This page will focus on Dockerfile-based builds because these are the most
popular and also take into account applications that you may have written
prior to Waypoint. However, Waypoint supports many more methods of building
container images. Documentation on other methods along with examples can be
found on the [build lifecycle page](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build).

## Docker Builder (Dockerfile)

The most popular way to build container images today is using a manually
written `Dockerfile`. Waypoint can also build images from Dockerfiles
using the [`docker` builder](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/builder). This also is
the easiest way to get started with Waypoint with existing applications, since
most existing applications for Kubernetes have Dockerfiles.

-> **If you don't know Docker, or don't want to write a Dockerfile,**
take a look at the [`pack` builder](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build#cloud-native-buildpacks).
This uses buildpacks to autodetect your app language and build a container
image.

The example below uses the Docker builder:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}
  }
}
```

This will use a `Dockerfile` in the same directory as your `waypoint.hcl`
file. You can test this using the Waypoint CLI by running `waypoint build`. This
command will perform the build only, so it can be used for testing. The
`waypoint build` command should be run in the same directory as your project
(with the `waypoint.hcl`).

Waypoint will automatically run your build remotely if you have a git repo
configured for your project and a runner and runner profile configured.
If you want to force a build to happen locally, use the `-local` flag.

```shell-session
# let waypoint choose to run your build remotely if possible (recommended):
$ waypoint build
...

# or, force it to run locally on your development machine:
$ waypoint build -local
...
```

### Docker Secrets

A common requirement within Dockerfiles is to be able to access private
information, whether that be via SSH, some API token, or any other mechanism.
Because Waypoint image builds happen remotely, they don't have access to your
local machine's secrets. The recommended approach to ensure secrets can be
accessed everywhere (locally and remote) is to use Waypoint
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input) paired with
Docker build arguments.

-> **Why not [Docker Secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/)?**
Unfortunately, Docker Secrets aren't supported because [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)
does not support them. We use Kaniko as the underlying technology to perform
Docker builds within your Kubernetes cluster.

The example below shows how we can access a private GitHub repository
using a [GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token). We show both
the `waypoint.hcl` and the `Dockerfile` used to build a Go application, as
an example.

```hcl
variable "github_token" {
  type = string
  env  = ["GITHUB_TOKEN"]
}

app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {
      disable_entrypoint = true
      build_args = {
        GITHUB_TOKEN = var.github_token
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.17-alpine AS builder

# Configure Git
ARG GITHUB_TOKEN
RUN apk add --no-cache git
RUN git config --global url."https://${GITHUB_TOKEN}:x-oauth-basic@github.com/".insteadOf "https://github.com/"

# Build Go app
RUN mkdir -p /src
WORKDIR /src
COPY . .
RUN go mod download
RUN go build -o /app .

FROM scratch

COPY --from=builder /app /app

ENTRYPOINT ["/app"]
```

To invoke this, you can set the `github_token` input variable
[many different ways](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#assigning-values-to-custom-input-variables). For long term use, the recommended location to set the variable
is via the web UI. However, for testing, you can use the CLI:

```shell-session
$ waypoint build -var github_token=$MYTOKEN <project>/<app>
```

## Container Registry

After getting builds working, the next step is usually to push that container
image to a container registry. Waypoint supports a
[`registry` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/registry) for specifying a
container registry for your image. To specify a Docker registry compatiable
registry, use the `docker` registry:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "docker.io/my-org/my-app"
        tag   = gitrefpretty()
        username = "myusername"
        password = "mytoken"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This example would push the built container image to
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), but any compatible registry
such as Quay, AWS ECR, etc. would work. For now, hardcode your credentials
as we've done in the example above and run `waypoint build` to verify it works.
This should push your image now.

### Hiding Credentials

In a real production use-case, you should not put your container registry
credentials directly in the `waypoint.hcl` file. Instead, you should use
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input) to parameterize them.
Input variables can be configured to read from environment variables so you
can use well known environment variables (such as `AWS_ACCESS_KEY`), too.

Normally, runner configuration should be used to provide these details to a runner
executing the operation that needs these details.

See [runner configuration](/waypoint/docs/runner/config) for details.

## Local vs. Remote Builds

Waypoint can run builds locally where you run the `waypoint` CLI, or
remotely in your Kubernetes cluster in pods that are launched on demand.
By default, Waypoint will automatically run your operations remotely when
[certain conditions](/waypoint/docs/projects/remote#requirements) are met.
Builds triggered by Git polling or the UI also happen remotely.

To build Docker images within Kubernetes, Waypoint uses
[Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko). Waypoint
sets up and invokes Kaniko for you, so you don't need to be familiar with it.
All you need to know is that Kaniko supports almost all modern `Dockerfile`
syntax, and it lets you do container image builds without any special
privileges in your Kubernetes cluster.

Remote builds are recommended.
If you want to force a build to happen locally, use the `-local` flag.

```shell-session
$ waypoint build -local
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/container-build.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - Building Container Images
description: |-
  Waypoint incorporates a first-class build step that can be used to build your container images and other artifacts. This page will focus on container (or Docker) images, since these are the primary deployment artifact that Kubernetes uses.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Building Container Images

Waypoint incorporates a first-class [build](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build) step that
can be used to build your container images and other artifacts. This page will
focus on container (or Docker) images, since these are the primary deployment
artifact that Kubernetes uses.

Often one of the first challenges when setting up a new application is answering
two questions: how do I build my application? and how do I get the result of my
build plumbed into my deployment configuration? Waypoint solves both of these
by incorporating configuration for both build and deploys into the
[waypoint.hcl file](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl).

-> **The built-in build functionality is optional.** If you have an external
process already setup to build your images, you can
[use externally-built images](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/external-build). Waypoint
just needs to know about some sort of artifact, whether it is responsible
for building it or not.

This page will focus on Dockerfile-based builds because these are the most
popular and also take into account applications that you may have written
prior to Waypoint. However, Waypoint supports many more methods of building
container images. Documentation on other methods along with examples can be
found on the [build lifecycle page](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build).

## Docker Builder (Dockerfile)

The most popular way to build container images today is using a manually
written `Dockerfile`. Waypoint can also build images from Dockerfiles
using the [`docker` builder](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/builder). This also is
the easiest way to get started with Waypoint with existing applications, since
most existing applications for Kubernetes have Dockerfiles.

-> **If you don't know Docker, or don't want to write a Dockerfile,**
take a look at the [`pack` builder](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build#cloud-native-buildpacks).
This uses buildpacks to autodetect your app language and build a container
image.

The example below uses the Docker builder:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}
  }
}
```

This will use a `Dockerfile` in the same directory as your `waypoint.hcl`
file. You can test this using the Waypoint CLI by running `waypoint build`. This
command will perform the build only, so it can be used for testing. The
`waypoint build` command should be run in the same directory as your project
(with the `waypoint.hcl`).

Waypoint will automatically run your build remotely if you have a git repo
configured for your project and a runner and runner profile configured.
If you want to force a build to happen locally, use the `-local` flag.

```shell-session
# let waypoint choose to run your build remotely if possible (recommended):
$ waypoint build
...

# or, force it to run locally on your development machine:
$ waypoint build -local
...
```

### Docker Secrets

A common requirement within Dockerfiles is to be able to access private
information, whether that be via SSH, some API token, or any other mechanism.
Because Waypoint image builds happen remotely, they don't have access to your
local machine's secrets. The recommended approach to ensure secrets can be
accessed everywhere (locally and remote) is to use Waypoint
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input) paired with
Docker build arguments.

-> **Why not [Docker Secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/)?**
Unfortunately, Docker Secrets aren't supported because [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)
does not support them. We use Kaniko as the underlying technology to perform
Docker builds within your Kubernetes cluster.

The example below shows how we can access a private GitHub repository
using a [GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token). We show both
the `waypoint.hcl` and the `Dockerfile` used to build a Go application, as
an example.

```hcl
variable "github_token" {
  type = string
  env  = ["GITHUB_TOKEN"]
}

app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {
      disable_entrypoint = true
      build_args = {
        GITHUB_TOKEN = var.github_token
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.17-alpine AS builder

# Configure Git
ARG GITHUB_TOKEN
RUN apk add --no-cache git
RUN git config --global url."https://${GITHUB_TOKEN}:x-oauth-basic@github.com/".insteadOf "https://github.com/"

# Build Go app
RUN mkdir -p /src
WORKDIR /src
COPY . .
RUN go mod download
RUN go build -o /app .

FROM scratch

COPY --from=builder /app /app

ENTRYPOINT ["/app"]
```

To invoke this, you can set the `github_token` input variable
[many different ways](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#assigning-values-to-custom-input-variables). For long term use, the recommended location to set the variable
is via the web UI. However, for testing, you can use the CLI:

```shell-session
$ waypoint build -var github_token=$MYTOKEN <project>/<app>
```

## Container Registry

After getting builds working, the next step is usually to push that container
image to a container registry. Waypoint supports a
[`registry` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/registry) for specifying a
container registry for your image. To specify a Docker registry compatiable
registry, use the `docker` registry:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "docker.io/my-org/my-app"
        tag   = gitrefpretty()
        username = "myusername"
        password = "mytoken"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This example would push the built container image to
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), but any compatible registry
such as Quay, AWS ECR, etc. would work. For now, hardcode your credentials
as we've done in the example above and run `waypoint build` to verify it works.
This should push your image now.

### Hiding Credentials

In a real production use-case, you should not put your container registry
credentials directly in the `waypoint.hcl` file. Instead, you should use
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input) to parameterize them.
Input variables can be configured to read from environment variables so you
can use well known environment variables (such as `AWS_ACCESS_KEY`), too.

Normally, runner configuration should be used to provide these details to a runner
executing the operation that needs these details.

See [runner configuration](/waypoint/docs/runner/config) for details.

## Local vs. Remote Builds

Waypoint can run builds locally where you run the `waypoint` CLI, or
remotely in your Kubernetes cluster in pods that are launched on demand.
By default, Waypoint will automatically run your operations remotely when
[certain conditions](/waypoint/docs/projects/remote#requirements) are met.
Builds triggered by Git polling or the UI also happen remotely.

To build Docker images within Kubernetes, Waypoint uses
[Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko). Waypoint
sets up and invokes Kaniko for you, so you don't need to be familiar with it.
All you need to know is that Kaniko supports almost all modern `Dockerfile`
syntax, and it lets you do container image builds without any special
privileges in your Kubernetes cluster.

Remote builds are recommended.
If you want to force a build to happen locally, use the `-local` flag.

```shell-session
$ waypoint build -local
```
