website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/kubectl-deploy.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - YAML Directory Deployment
description: |-
  Waypoint can mimic `kubectl apply` and deploy from a directory of YAML files. This option lets you adopt Waypoint very easily with existing applications.
---

# Deploying Applications using YAML

Waypoint can mimic `kubectl apply` and deploy from a directory of YAML
files. This option lets you adopt Waypoint very easily with existing
applications. A downside of this option is that Waypoint cannot help automatically
configure any aspect of Kubernetes (such as autoscaling). Instead, users
are expected to write YAML and exactly control their deployments.

-> **There are other deployment options.** Waypoint supports many other mechanisms
for deploying to Kubernetes. You can use the
[`kubernetes`](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/deploy) plugin for highly opinionated, no YAML deployments. Or you can use
[Helm](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/helm-deploy).

## A Simple Deployment

The example below shows how we can use the `kubernetes-apply` plugin to
deploy a directory of YAML files to create a single Kubernetes "Deployment"
resource:

```hcl
deploy {
  use "kubernetes-apply" {
    path        = templatedir("${path.app}/k8s")
    prune_label = "app=myapp"
  }
}
```

```yaml
// ./k8s/deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-deployment
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: myapp
        image: ${artifact.image}:${artifact.tag}
```

We use the [`templatedir` function](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/template#templatedir)
so that we can access the [`artifact` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact)
and use this to dynamically set our image for the deployment based on the
image built in the build step. The ability to access HCL variables and
functions in our YAML files is one big benefit of using Waypoint.

The `prune_label` option specifies a Kubernetes label selector that Waypoint
uses to know what resources to delete if and when the deployment is eventually
destroyed. This should be set to a label selector that uniquely identifies
the resources created by your YAML files.

## Entrypoint Functionality

With this plugin, Waypoint does not automatically inject the necessary
environment variables for the [Waypoint Entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint). Therefore,
features such as logs, exec, etc. will not be available by default. If you
wish to use this functionality, you can manually inject the necessary environment
variables by using the [`entrypoint` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/entrypoint)
paired with templating as shown above.

The YAML file below shows the same deployment resource being created
as the previous examples, but extends it to use the `entrypoint` variable
to set the proper environment variables so that the entrypoint functions.

-> **This requires the entrypoint to be in your container image.** If
you're using the `docker` builder plugin, this happens automatically.
If you're using externally built images, you may need to
[manually inject the entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/external-build#waypoint-entrypoint-with-external-image-builds).

```yaml
// ./k8s/deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-deployment
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: myapp
        image: ${artifact.image}:${artifact.tag}
        env:
          %{ for k,v in entrypoint.env ~}
          - name: ${k}
            value: "${v}"
          %{ endfor ~}

          # Ensure we set PORT for the URL service. This is only necessary
          # if we want the URL service to function.
          - name: PORT
            value: "3000"
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/kubectl-deploy.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - YAML Directory Deployment
description: |-
  Waypoint can mimic `kubectl apply` and deploy from a directory of YAML files. This option lets you adopt Waypoint very easily with existing applications.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Deploying Applications using YAML

Waypoint can mimic `kubectl apply` and deploy from a directory of YAML
files. This option lets you adopt Waypoint very easily with existing
applications. A downside of this option is that Waypoint cannot help automatically
configure any aspect of Kubernetes (such as autoscaling). Instead, users
are expected to write YAML and exactly control their deployments.

-> **There are other deployment options.** Waypoint supports many other mechanisms
for deploying to Kubernetes. You can use the
[`kubernetes`](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/deploy) plugin for highly opinionated, no YAML deployments. Or you can use
[Helm](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/helm-deploy).

## A Simple Deployment

The example below shows how we can use the `kubernetes-apply` plugin to
deploy a directory of YAML files to create a single Kubernetes "Deployment"
resource:

```hcl
deploy {
  use "kubernetes-apply" {
    path        = templatedir("${path.app}/k8s")
    prune_label = "app=myapp"
  }
}
```

```yaml
// ./k8s/deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-deployment
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: myapp
        image: ${artifact.image}:${artifact.tag}
```

We use the [`templatedir` function](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/template#templatedir)
so that we can access the [`artifact` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact)
and use this to dynamically set our image for the deployment based on the
image built in the build step. The ability to access HCL variables and
functions in our YAML files is one big benefit of using Waypoint.

The `prune_label` option specifies a Kubernetes label selector that Waypoint
uses to know what resources to delete if and when the deployment is eventually
destroyed. This should be set to a label selector that uniquely identifies
the resources created by your YAML files.

## Entrypoint Functionality

With this plugin, Waypoint does not automatically inject the necessary
environment variables for the [Waypoint Entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint). Therefore,
features such as logs, exec, etc. will not be available by default. If you
wish to use this functionality, you can manually inject the necessary environment
variables by using the [`entrypoint` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/entrypoint)
paired with templating as shown above.

The YAML file below shows the same deployment resource being created
as the previous examples, but extends it to use the `entrypoint` variable
to set the proper environment variables so that the entrypoint functions.

-> **This requires the entrypoint to be in your container image.** If
you're using the `docker` builder plugin, this happens automatically.
If you're using externally built images, you may need to
[manually inject the entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/external-build#waypoint-entrypoint-with-external-image-builds).

```yaml
// ./k8s/deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-deployment
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: myapp
        image: ${artifact.image}:${artifact.tag}
        env:
          %{ for k,v in entrypoint.env ~}
          - name: ${k}
            value: "${v}"
          %{ endfor ~}

          # Ensure we set PORT for the URL service. This is only necessary
          # if we want the URL service to function.
          - name: PORT
            value: "3000"
```
