website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/resource-status.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - Resource Status
description: |-
  Waypoint tracks the Kubernetes resources created during deployment and can show you their details and health status in the web UI and CLI.
---

# Resource Status

Waypoint tracks the Kubernetes resources created during deployment
and can show you their details and health status in the web UI and CLI.
This helps show that what Waypoint is doing isn't magic and isn't trying
to hide anything, and lets developers and operators more easily debug
their deployments when something isn't healthy.

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

## Viewing Resource Status

![Kubernetes Resource Status](/img/k8s-resource-status.png)

You may also view the resource status in the CLI. While in your project
repository (with a `waypoint.hcl` file), execute `waypoint status`. To
view detailed status about a specific app, specify the `-app` flag with
the name of the application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint status -app=my-app my-project
Current status for application "my-app" in project "my-project"

» Application Summary
APP           	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUS	DEPLOYMENT CHECKED	RELEASE STATUS	RELEASE CHECKED
my-app  	✔ READY          	2 minutes ago     	N/A


» Deployment Summary
APP NAME      	VERSION	WORKSPACE	PLATFORM	ARTIFACT          	LIFECYCLE STATE
my-app	v13    	default  	helm    	id:1	image:2f3122b		SUCCESS


» Deployment Resources Summary
TYPE      	NAME                          	PLATFORM  	HEALTH 	TIME CREATED
Service   	my-app-waypoint-nodejs			kubernetes	UNKNOWN	13 minutes ago
Deployment	my-app-waypoint-nodejs			kubernetes	UNKNOWN	13 minutes ago

The application and its resources listed above represents its current state known
in the Waypoint server.
```

## Refreshing Resource Status

When viewing the resource status in the UI or the CLI, Waypoint by default
will show you the _most recent status report_, but this report may be minutes
old. You can request a refreshed status report in the CLI by specifying the
`-refresh` flag. Note that this may cause the `status` operation to take
anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes depending on the size of your
deployment and the load on Kubernetes.

```shell-session
$ waypoint status -refresh
...
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/platforms/kubernetes/resource-status.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - Resource Status
description: |-
  Waypoint tracks the Kubernetes resources created during deployment and can show you their details and health status in the web UI and CLI.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Resource Status

Waypoint tracks the Kubernetes resources created during deployment
and can show you their details and health status in the web UI and CLI.
This helps show that what Waypoint is doing isn't magic and isn't trying
to hide anything, and lets developers and operators more easily debug
their deployments when something isn't healthy.

<!-- TODO: screenshot -->

## Viewing Resource Status

![Kubernetes Resource Status](/img/k8s-resource-status.png)

You may also view the resource status in the CLI. While in your project
repository (with a `waypoint.hcl` file), execute `waypoint status`. To
view detailed status about a specific app, specify the `-app` flag with
the name of the application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint status -app=my-app my-project
Current status for application "my-app" in project "my-project"

» Application Summary
APP           	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUS	DEPLOYMENT CHECKED	RELEASE STATUS	RELEASE CHECKED
my-app  	✔ READY          	2 minutes ago     	N/A


» Deployment Summary
APP NAME      	VERSION	WORKSPACE	PLATFORM	ARTIFACT          	LIFECYCLE STATE
my-app	v13    	default  	helm    	id:1	image:2f3122b		SUCCESS


» Deployment Resources Summary
TYPE      	NAME                          	PLATFORM  	HEALTH 	TIME CREATED
Service   	my-app-waypoint-nodejs			kubernetes	UNKNOWN	13 minutes ago
Deployment	my-app-waypoint-nodejs			kubernetes	UNKNOWN	13 minutes ago

The application and its resources listed above represents its current state known
in the Waypoint server.
```

## Refreshing Resource Status

When viewing the resource status in the UI or the CLI, Waypoint by default
will show you the _most recent status report_, but this report may be minutes
old. You can request a refreshed status report in the CLI by specifying the
`-refresh` flag. Note that this may cause the `status` operation to take
anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes depending on the size of your
deployment and the load on Kubernetes.

```shell-session
$ waypoint status -refresh
...
```
