website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Functions - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `waypoint.hcl` file uses HCL which is able to call predefined functions. Functions enable Waypoint configurations to represent complex configurations using programming techniques.
---

# Functions in `waypoint.hcl`

The `waypoint.hcl` file uses [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) which
is able to call predefined functions. Functions enable Waypoint configurations
to represent complex configurations using programming techniques.

Most functions can be used anywhere in the Waypoint configuration file.
Some functions are context-specific and are only valid when called from the correct locations.
Function documentation pages may use [placement tables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#placement-tables)
to document where functions are valid. If a placement table is not present
for a function, it is safe to assume that it can be used anywhere.

## Calling Functions

Function usage is similar to many mainstream programming languages such
as Javascript, Ruby, or Python. Functions can be called directly and
assigned to values:

```hcl
port = floor(8080.4)
```

Functions can be composed:

```hcl
port = floor(abs(-8080.4))
```

Functions arguments can be any expressions: variables, mathematical operations, etc.:

```hcl
port = floor(abs(artifact.port) + 42)
```

Functions can be used as part of string interpolations. Regardless of the
return value HCL will attempt to coerce it into a string:

```hcl
port = "80${floor(80.4)}" // 8080
```

## Custom Functions

Waypoint does not support custom defined functions.

### Use with variables

HCL functions are often especially useful when combined with hcl variables. For example, to include
the base64 encoded contents of a file in your app's source project, you can use:

```hcl
file_contents = filebase64("${path.app}/config.conf")
```

For a complete list of variables, see [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Functions - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `waypoint.hcl` file uses HCL which is able to call predefined functions. Functions enable Waypoint configurations to represent complex configurations using programming techniques.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Functions in `waypoint.hcl`

The `waypoint.hcl` file uses [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) which
is able to call predefined functions. Functions enable Waypoint configurations
to represent complex configurations using programming techniques.

Most functions can be used anywhere in the Waypoint configuration file.
Some functions are context-specific and are only valid when called from the correct locations.
Function documentation pages may use [placement tables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#placement-tables)
to document where functions are valid. If a placement table is not present
for a function, it is safe to assume that it can be used anywhere.

## Calling Functions

Function usage is similar to many mainstream programming languages such
as Javascript, Ruby, or Python. Functions can be called directly and
assigned to values:

```hcl
port = floor(8080.4)
```

Functions can be composed:

```hcl
port = floor(abs(-8080.4))
```

Functions arguments can be any expressions: variables, mathematical operations, etc.:

```hcl
port = floor(abs(artifact.port) + 42)
```

Functions can be used as part of string interpolations. Regardless of the
return value HCL will attempt to coerce it into a string:

```hcl
port = "80${floor(80.4)}" // 8080
```

## Custom Functions

Waypoint does not support custom defined functions.

### Use with variables

HCL functions are often especially useful when combined with hcl variables. For example, to include
the base64 encoded contents of a file in your app's source project, you can use:

```hcl
file_contents = filebase64("${path.app}/config.conf")
```

For a complete list of variables, see [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables)
