website/content/plugins/aws-apprunner.mdx, before:

---
layout: plugins
page_title: 'Plugin: AWS App Runner'
description: 'Deploy on App Runner'
---

# AWS App Runner

~> **Note**: The AWS App Runner `platform` only supports services that use AWS ECR images,
and not source code repositories.

## Example

Here is an example `waypoint.hcl` that you might expect to use when deploying a
containerized `python` API to AWS App Runner.

```hcl
project = "python"

app "fastapi" {
  build {
    use "aws-ecr-pull" {
      region     = var.region
      repository = var.repository
      tag        = var.tag
    }
  }

  deploy {
    use "aws-apprunner" {
      region = var.region
      name   = "my-apprunner-service"
      memory = 2048
      cpu    = 1024
      port   = 7531

      role_name = "option_service_role_name"

      static_environment = {
        "DB_NAME" = "deebee"
        "DB_PORT" = "6379"
      }
    }
  }

  release {
    use "aws-apprunner" {
    }
  }
}

variable "region" {
  default     = "us-east-1"
  type        = string
  description = "AWS Region"
}
variable "repository" {
  default     = "python-fastapi"
  type        = string
  description = "AWS ECR Repository Name"
}
variable "tag" {
  default     = "latest"
  type        = string
  description = "A tag"
}
```

## Compatible Builders

Waypoint offers two built-in configurations that _just work_ with AWS App Runner:

## Builders

Nomad is a simple, flexible scheduler and workload orchestrator. Nomad uses
Docker images for building, which are generated by these builders:

- [Docker](/plugins/docker): Use this if you want Waypoint
  to build your image and push it to ECR. This may be your choice if you
  are not already publishing OCI images to ECR.

- [AWS ECR Pull](/plugins/aws-ecr-pull): Use this if you have AWS ECR images already
  built and pushed to ECR. This might be the case if you have an existing
  CI/CD system that handles the step for you.

`aws-ecr-pull` **builder** —

`docker` **builder** + `aws-ecr` **registry** —

## Platform

@include "components/platform-aws-apprunner.mdx"

## Releaser

@include "components/releasemanager-aws-apprunner.mdx"

Commit message:

chore(docs): mention `-prune=false`

website/content/plugins/aws-apprunner.mdx, after:

---
layout: plugins
page_title: 'Plugin: AWS App Runner'
description: 'Deploy on App Runner'
---

# AWS App Runner

~> **Note**: The AWS App Runner `platform` only supports services that use AWS ECR images,
and not source code repositories.

## Example

Here is an example `waypoint.hcl` that you might expect to use when deploying a
containerized `python` API to AWS App Runner.

```hcl
project = "python"

app "fastapi" {
  build {
    use "aws-ecr-pull" {
      region     = var.region
      repository = var.repository
      tag        = var.tag
    }
  }

  deploy {
    use "aws-apprunner" {
      region = var.region
      name   = "my-apprunner-service"
      memory = 2048
      cpu    = 1024
      port   = 7531

      role_name = "option_service_role_name"

      static_environment = {
        "DB_NAME" = "deebee"
        "DB_PORT" = "6379"
      }
    }
  }

  release {
    use "aws-apprunner" {
    }
  }
}

variable "region" {
  default     = "us-east-1"
  type        = string
  description = "AWS Region"
}
variable "repository" {
  default     = "python-fastapi"
  type        = string
  description = "AWS ECR Repository Name"
}
variable "tag" {
  default     = "latest"
  type        = string
  description = "A tag"
}
```

!> Due to Waypoint's current behavior to prune previous deployments it is recommended
to always use the `-prune=false` flag to prevent subsequent `waypoint up`'s from accidentally
tearing down the single AppRunner service. Default pruning behavior may change in the future.
See https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues/4035

## Compatible Builders

Waypoint offers two built-in configurations that _just work_ with AWS App Runner:

## Builders

Nomad is a simple, flexible scheduler and workload orchestrator. Nomad uses
Docker images for building, which are generated by these builders:

- [Docker](/plugins/docker): Use this if you want Waypoint
  to build your image and push it to ECR. This may be your choice if you
  are not already publishing OCI images to ECR.

- [AWS ECR Pull](/plugins/aws-ecr-pull): Use this if you have AWS ECR images already
  built and pushed to ECR. This might be the case if you have an existing
  CI/CD system that handles the step for you.

`aws-ecr-pull` **builder** —

`docker` **builder** + `aws-ecr` **registry** —

## Platform

@include "components/platform-aws-apprunner.mdx"

## Releaser

@include "components/releasemanager-aws-apprunner.mdx"
