website/content/docs/upgrading/compatibility.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Compatibility Promise
description: Waypoint version compatibility is determined based on the protocol version and not the release version such as "1.2.3". Two different Waypoint release versions are compatible so long as their protocol versions are compatible.
---

# Compatibility Promise

Waypoint has multiple components that need to interact with each other:
the clients, the server, entrypoints, etc. Due to the diverse nature of these
components, Waypoint has a protocol versioning system designed to minimize
breaking changes and allow users to predictably run differing versions of
each component.

-> **Waypoint version compatibility is determined based on the
[protocol version](#protocol-versions) and not the release version such
as "1.2.3".** Two different Waypoint release versions are compatible so
long as their protocol versions are compatible. This allows for multiple
simultaneous Waypoint versions to be in use, which is expected.

Our promises:

1. We promise that two Waypoint versions can interoperate with each other if their
   [protocol versions](#protocol-versions) overlap.

2. We promise that there will always be a release with overlapping protocol
   versions to allow all Waypoint components to safely upgrade.

3. For Waypoint servers, we promise that each subsequent release will be compatible with the
   prior release for upgrades. Concretely: 0.4 can upgrade to 0.5 but
   may not be able to safely upgrade to 0.6 directly. You often will be
   able to upgrade multiple versions at once but you must verify with the
   upgrade guides first.

Note that point #3 is only applicable to servers since they are the only
component that stores state. For all other components (CLI, UI, entrypoints,
etc.), compatibility promise #1 is most important.

## Scope of Compatibility

The usage of the term "compatibility" describes the ability for two
separate Waypoint processes to interoperate by API. Compatibility does
not cover CLI commands or flags, the Waypoint configuration file, or UI
layout.

We will make our best effort to keep these compatible across versions
but they are not covered by the protocol version or the compatibility
promise outlined on this page.

You may learn of any backwards incompatibilities in these sections
in the upgrade guide for a specific version.

## Protocol Versions

Waypoint advertises _protocol versions_ which can be used to determine
if differing release versions are compatible with each other. Protocol
versions are integers that are greater than or equal to 1.

For each advertised protocol version, Waypoint advertises a _minimum_
compatible version along with the _current_ compatible version. A client
may communicate with a Waypoint server so long as the current protocol
versions are within the range advertised.

Finally, Waypoint advertises two types of protocol versions: one for
the API, and one exclusively for the [entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint) protocol.
This allows Waypoint to iterate on the API in potentially backwards
incompatible ways without breaking entrypoints, and vice versa.

### Current Protocol Version Table

The current protocol version table can be viewed [here](/waypoint/docs/upgrading/protocol-table).

### Example

The following is a concrete example of using the protocol versions to
determine compatibility. The Waypoint versions and their advertised protocol
versions are examples and not real, current Waypoint versions.

The scenario of the _currently deployed_ Waypoint components is:

| Component  | Version | Protocol Min | Protocol Current |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| Server     | 5.1.0   | 3            | 5                |
| CLI        | 5.3.2   | 4            | 5                |
| Entrypoint | 4.1.0   | 1            | 3                |
| Entrypoint | 3.3.0   | 1            | 2                |

In this scenario, there is a diverse set of Waypoint components currently
deployed. Each has differing versions and its own set of protocol compatibilities.
This is expected and normal. For example, developers will often use newer
CLIs than what the server may be running and deployments will often run older
(sometimes much older) entrypoint versions if they haven't been rebuilt and
redeployed recently.

In this scenario, a new version of Waypoint comes out with the following compatibility:

| Component | Version | Protocol Min  | Protocol Current |
| --------- | ------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| Server    | 6.0.0   | API: 5        | API: 6           |
|           |         | Entrypoint: 3 | Entrypoint: 4    |

Going through the list of components, we can see:

- **The CLI is compatible.** It speaks protocols 4 to 5, inclusive, and the
  API protocol for the new server would be 5 to 6. We should consider
  upgrading the CLI eventually but we don't need to immediately.

- **Entrypoint v4.1.0 is compatible, but v3.3.0 is not.** The slightly
  newer (but still very outdated) entrypoint is still compatible so there
  are no problems there. But the deployments running entrypoint v3.3.0
  need to be upgraded before the server is since they're incompatible.
  The entrypoint protocol for v3.3.0 was 1 to 2, and the new server
  only speaks 3 to 4.

To safely perform the upgrades required, please read the
[upgrade guide](/waypoint/docs/upgrading).

## Frequency of Protocol Version Change

Protocol versions exist so that we can introduce breaking changes safely,
but that doesn't mean that we will do so frequently. We recognize that protocol
version changes can be _very_ disruptive, and therefore aim to minimize
the frequency of these changes.

At the time of writing, Waypoint is a relatively new project. Based on
prior experience with other projects, we expect some protocol version changes
during early releases (0.x) but for the frequency to quickly dissipate as
the project matures.

We can look to [Consul](/consul) as an example, since they use
a similar protocol versioning feature. By
[looking at their protocol version history](/consul/docs/upgrading/compatibility),
we can see that we introduced a new protocol version in the first 6 months
of the project but retained compatibility for 2 years (until version 0.7).
And while we introduced more protocol versions we continue to be compatible
with versions over 4 years old.

With Waypoint, we hope to achieve something similar: we may iterate on the
protocol quickly as a new project, but will aim to maintain compatibility
for as long as possible.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/upgrading/compatibility.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Compatibility Promise
description: Waypoint version compatibility is determined based on the protocol version and not the release version such as "1.2.3". Two different Waypoint release versions are compatible so long as their protocol versions are compatible.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Compatibility Promise

Waypoint has multiple components that need to interact with each other:
the clients, the server, entrypoints, etc. Due to the diverse nature of these
components, Waypoint has a protocol versioning system designed to minimize
breaking changes and allow users to predictably run differing versions of
each component.

-> **Waypoint version compatibility is determined based on the
[protocol version](#protocol-versions) and not the release version such
as "1.2.3".** Two different Waypoint release versions are compatible so
long as their protocol versions are compatible. This allows for multiple
simultaneous Waypoint versions to be in use, which is expected.

Our promises:

1. We promise that two Waypoint versions can interoperate with each other if their
   [protocol versions](#protocol-versions) overlap.

2. We promise that there will always be a release with overlapping protocol
   versions to allow all Waypoint components to safely upgrade.

3. For Waypoint servers, we promise that each subsequent release will be compatible with the
   prior release for upgrades. Concretely: 0.4 can upgrade to 0.5 but
   may not be able to safely upgrade to 0.6 directly. You often will be
   able to upgrade multiple versions at once but you must verify with the
   upgrade guides first.

Note that point #3 is only applicable to servers since they are the only
component that stores state. For all other components (CLI, UI, entrypoints,
etc.), compatibility promise #1 is most important.

## Scope of Compatibility

The usage of the term "compatibility" describes the ability for two
separate Waypoint processes to interoperate by API. Compatibility does
not cover CLI commands or flags, the Waypoint configuration file, or UI
layout.

We will make our best effort to keep these compatible across versions
but they are not covered by the protocol version or the compatibility
promise outlined on this page.

You may learn of any backwards incompatibilities in these sections
in the upgrade guide for a specific version.

## Protocol Versions

Waypoint advertises _protocol versions_ which can be used to determine
if differing release versions are compatible with each other. Protocol
versions are integers that are greater than or equal to 1.

For each advertised protocol version, Waypoint advertises a _minimum_
compatible version along with the _current_ compatible version. A client
may communicate with a Waypoint server so long as the current protocol
versions are within the range advertised.

Finally, Waypoint advertises two types of protocol versions: one for
the API, and one exclusively for the [entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint) protocol.
This allows Waypoint to iterate on the API in potentially backwards
incompatible ways without breaking entrypoints, and vice versa.

### Current Protocol Version Table

The current protocol version table can be viewed [here](/waypoint/docs/upgrading/protocol-table).

### Example

The following is a concrete example of using the protocol versions to
determine compatibility. The Waypoint versions and their advertised protocol
versions are examples and not real, current Waypoint versions.

The scenario of the _currently deployed_ Waypoint components is:

| Component  | Version | Protocol Min | Protocol Current |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| Server     | 5.1.0   | 3            | 5                |
| CLI        | 5.3.2   | 4            | 5                |
| Entrypoint | 4.1.0   | 1            | 3                |
| Entrypoint | 3.3.0   | 1            | 2                |

In this scenario, there is a diverse set of Waypoint components currently
deployed. Each has differing versions and its own set of protocol compatibilities.
This is expected and normal. For example, developers will often use newer
CLIs than what the server may be running and deployments will often run older
(sometimes much older) entrypoint versions if they haven't been rebuilt and
redeployed recently.

In this scenario, a new version of Waypoint comes out with the following compatibility:

| Component | Version | Protocol Min  | Protocol Current |
| --------- | ------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| Server    | 6.0.0   | API: 5        | API: 6           |
|           |         | Entrypoint: 3 | Entrypoint: 4    |

Going through the list of components, we can see:

- **The CLI is compatible.** It speaks protocols 4 to 5, inclusive, and the
  API protocol for the new server would be 5 to 6. We should consider
  upgrading the CLI eventually but we don't need to immediately.

- **Entrypoint v4.1.0 is compatible, but v3.3.0 is not.** The slightly
  newer (but still very outdated) entrypoint is still compatible so there
  are no problems there. But the deployments running entrypoint v3.3.0
  need to be upgraded before the server is since they're incompatible.
  The entrypoint protocol for v3.3.0 was 1 to 2, and the new server
  only speaks 3 to 4.

To safely perform the upgrades required, please read the
[upgrade guide](/waypoint/docs/upgrading).

## Frequency of Protocol Version Change

Protocol versions exist so that we can introduce breaking changes safely,
but that doesn't mean that we will do so frequently. We recognize that protocol
version changes can be _very_ disruptive, and therefore aim to minimize
the frequency of these changes.

At the time of writing, Waypoint is a relatively new project. Based on
prior experience with other projects, we expect some protocol version changes
during early releases (0.x) but for the frequency to quickly dissipate as
the project matures.

We can look to [Consul](/consul) as an example, since they use
a similar protocol versioning feature. By
[looking at their protocol version history](/consul/docs/upgrading/compatibility),
we can see that we introduced a new protocol version in the first 6 months
of the project but retained compatibility for 2 years (until version 0.7).
And while we introduced more protocol versions we continue to be compatible
with versions over 4 years old.

With Waypoint, we hope to achieve something similar: we may iterate on the
protocol quickly as a new project, but will aim to maintain compatibility
for as long as possible.
