website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/builder.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Builder'
description: |-
  How to implement the Builder component for a Waypoint plugin
---

# Builder

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Builder

The builder component is responsible for building your application code, this may be the execution of
Docker build, build packs, or running language specific tools such as go build. This plugin is called
when running the waypoint build command.

![Authenticator](/img/extending-waypoint/build.png)

To implement the build component you implement the Builder interface, Builder has a single method BuildFunc
that returns the function to be called by Waypoint.

```go
// Builder is responsible for building an artifact from source.
type Builder interface {
  // BuildFunc should return the method handle for the "build" operation.
  // The build function has access to a *Source and should return an Artifact.
  BuildFunc() interface{}
}
```

The signature of the function you return from `BuildFunc` can accept parameters from the list of Default Parameters are
required. The output parameters are a Go struct which is serializable to Protocol Buffers binary format and an error.
In the example below the function returns an instance of the struct Binary, returning this type makes it available
to be injected into the next phase which is the Registry plugin. If an error is returned Waypoint would stop execution
and return the error message to the user.

```go
type Builder struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (b *Builder) BuildFunc() interface{} {
  return b.Build
}

func (b *Builder) Build(
  ctx context.Context,
  src *component.Source,
  job *component.JobInfo,
  projectDir *datadir.Project,
  appDir *datadir.App,
  componentDir *datadir.Component,
  log hclog.Logger,
  ui terminal.UI,
  labels *component.LabelSet,
) (*Binary, error) {
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/builder.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Builder'
description: |-
  How to implement the Builder component for a Waypoint plugin
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Builder

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Builder

The builder component is responsible for building your application code, this may be the execution of
Docker build, build packs, or running language specific tools such as go build. This plugin is called
when running the waypoint build command.

![Authenticator](/img/extending-waypoint/build.png)

To implement the build component you implement the Builder interface, Builder has a single method BuildFunc
that returns the function to be called by Waypoint.

```go
// Builder is responsible for building an artifact from source.
type Builder interface {
  // BuildFunc should return the method handle for the "build" operation.
  // The build function has access to a *Source and should return an Artifact.
  BuildFunc() interface{}
}
```

The signature of the function you return from `BuildFunc` can accept parameters from the list of Default Parameters are
required. The output parameters are a Go struct which is serializable to Protocol Buffers binary format and an error.
In the example below the function returns an instance of the struct Binary, returning this type makes it available
to be injected into the next phase which is the Registry plugin. If an error is returned Waypoint would stop execution
and return the error message to the user.

```go
type Builder struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (b *Builder) BuildFunc() interface{} {
  return b.Build
}

func (b *Builder) Build(
  ctx context.Context,
  src *component.Source,
  job *component.JobInfo,
  projectDir *datadir.Project,
  appDir *datadir.App,
  componentDir *datadir.Component,
  log hclog.Logger,
  ui terminal.UI,
  labels *component.LabelSet,
) (*Binary, error) {
```
