website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/configsourcer.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'ConfigSourcer'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

# ConfigSourcer

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#ConfigSourcer

`ConfigSourcer` can be implemented to dynamically load configs from external
sources such as [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) and [Terraform Cloud](/plugins/terraform-cloud#terraform-cloud-configsourcer).
Waypoint uses dynamic config sourcers to run alongside the application. The
plugin interface expects a `ReadFunc()` for reading configuration and a
`StopFunc()` for stopping configuration sourcing.

```go
// ConfigSourcer can be implemented by plugins that support sourcing
// dynamic configuration for running applications.
//
// This plugin type runs alongside the application. The initial config loading
// will block the application start so authors should attempt to source
// configuration as quickly as possible.
type ConfigSourcer interface {
  // ReadFunc returns the function for reading configuration.
  //
  // The returned function can start a background goroutine to more efficiently
  // watch for changes. The entrypoint will periodically call Read to check for
  // updates.
  //
  // If the configuration changes for any dynamic configuration variable,
  // the entrypoint will call Stop followed by Read, so plugins DO NOT need
  // to implement config diffing. Plugins may safely assume if Read is called
  // after a Stop that the config is new, and that subsequent calls have the
  // same config.
  //
  // Read is called for ALL defined configuration variables for this source.
  // If ANY change, Stop is called followed by Read again. Only one sourcer
  // is active for a set of configs.
  ReadFunc() interface{}

  // StopFunc returns a function for stopping configuration sourcing.
  // You can return nil if stopping is not necessary or supported for
  // this sourcer.
  //
  // The stop function should stop any background processes started with Read.
  StopFunc() interface{}
}
```

Below is an abbreviated example of the Terraform Cloud ConfigSourcer `ReadFunc()`.

```go
// ReadFunc implements component.ConfigSourcer
func (cs *ConfigSourcer) ReadFunc() interface{} {
        return cs.read
}


func (cs *ConfigSourcer) read(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        reqs []*component.ConfigRequest,
) ([]*pb.ConfigSource_Value, error) {
        // Setup our lock
        cs.cacheMu.Lock()
        defer cs.cacheMu.Unlock()

        // Set up client to read from Terraform Cloud

        // Then iterate over each request in `reqs` to load the value from TFC

        // Return the results
}
```

## Getting your plugin into the CEB

To write your own config sourcer, the Waypoint [entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint)
needs to be able to load and run your plugin. Unfortunately today there is no
supported way for the CEB to automatically load your plugin. This means if
you wish you write your own config sourcer plugin, you'll need to add the
plugin in your own fork of Waypoint and build it from your fork to have your
plugin included. You can also make a pull request to the main repository of
Waypoint if you think your plugin makes sense.

We intend to provide a better way for the entrypoint to load custom plugins
in the future that does not require users building their own version of Waypoint
with their custom config sourcer plugin.

Commit message:

docs: general improvements to plugins

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/configsourcer.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'ConfigSourcer'
description: |-
  How to implement the ConfigSourcer component for a Waypoint plugin
---

# ConfigSourcer

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#ConfigSourcer

`ConfigSourcer` can be implemented to dynamically load configs from external
sources such as [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) and [Terraform Cloud](/plugins/terraform-cloud#terraform-cloud-configsourcer).
Waypoint uses dynamic config sourcers to run alongside the application. The
plugin interface expects a `ReadFunc()` for reading configuration and a
`StopFunc()` for stopping configuration sourcing.

```go
// ConfigSourcer can be implemented by plugins that support sourcing
// dynamic configuration for running applications.
//
// This plugin type runs alongside the application. The initial config loading
// will block the application start so authors should attempt to source
// configuration as quickly as possible.
type ConfigSourcer interface {
  // ReadFunc returns the function for reading configuration.
  //
  // The returned function can start a background goroutine to more efficiently
  // watch for changes. The entrypoint will periodically call Read to check for
  // updates.
  //
  // If the configuration changes for any dynamic configuration variable,
  // the entrypoint will call Stop followed by Read, so plugins DO NOT need
  // to implement config diffing. Plugins may safely assume if Read is called
  // after a Stop that the config is new, and that subsequent calls have the
  // same config.
  //
  // Read is called for ALL defined configuration variables for this source.
  // If ANY change, Stop is called followed by Read again. Only one sourcer
  // is active for a set of configs.
  ReadFunc() interface{}

  // StopFunc returns a function for stopping configuration sourcing.
  // You can return nil if stopping is not necessary or supported for
  // this sourcer.
  //
  // The stop function should stop any background processes started with Read.
  StopFunc() interface{}
}
```

Below is an abbreviated example of the Terraform Cloud ConfigSourcer `ReadFunc()`.

```go
// ReadFunc implements component.ConfigSourcer
func (cs *ConfigSourcer) ReadFunc() interface{} {
        return cs.read
}


func (cs *ConfigSourcer) read(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        reqs []*component.ConfigRequest,
) ([]*pb.ConfigSource_Value, error) {
        // Setup our lock
        cs.cacheMu.Lock()
        defer cs.cacheMu.Unlock()

        // Set up client to read from Terraform Cloud

        // Then iterate over each request in `reqs` to load the value from TFC

        // Return the results
}
```

## Getting your plugin into the CEB

To write your own config sourcer, the Waypoint [entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint)
needs to be able to load and run your plugin. Unfortunately today there is no
supported way for the CEB to automatically load your plugin. This means if
you wish you write your own config sourcer plugin, you'll need to add the
plugin in your own fork of Waypoint and build it from your fork to have your
plugin included. You can also make a pull request to the main repository of
Waypoint if you think your plugin makes sense.

We intend to provide a better way for the entrypoint to load custom plugins
in the future that does not require users building their own version of Waypoint
with their custom config sourcer plugin.
