website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/platform.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Platform'
description: |-
  How to implement the Platform component for a Waypoint plugin
---

# Platform

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Platform

The `Platform` component is where you handle interaction between Waypoint and the destination platform. It is handled
through the implementation of the DeployFunc interface and optionally the `PlatformReleaser` interface.

![Platform](/img/extending-waypoint/platform.png)

The Platform component is responsible for deploying your application to the destination platform, for example say you
wish to deploy the application to Google Cloud Run, the DeployFunc callback would be where you would define the interaction
with the Cloud Run APIs.

A platform component can be created by implementing the Platform interface, Platform has a single function DeployFunc from
which you return a function which will be called by Waypoint.

```go
type Platform interface {
  DeployFunc() interface{}
}
```

The following code snippet shows an example of the implementation of `DeployFunc`, the signature for the function returned
from DeployFunc can be defined to accept the Default Mappers, in addition it can accept the data model which was returned
from the `Registry` component.

```go
type Platform struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (p *Platform) DeployFunc() interface{} {
  return d.Deploy
}

func (p *Platform) Deploy(
  ctx context.Context,
  ji *component.JobInfo,
  artifact *registry.Artifact,
  hc history.Client,
  ui terminal.UI,
) (*Deployment, error)
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/platform.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Platform'
description: |-
  How to implement the Platform component for a Waypoint plugin
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Platform

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Platform

The `Platform` component is where you handle interaction between Waypoint and the destination platform. It is handled
through the implementation of the DeployFunc interface and optionally the `PlatformReleaser` interface.

![Platform](/img/extending-waypoint/platform.png)

The Platform component is responsible for deploying your application to the destination platform, for example say you
wish to deploy the application to Google Cloud Run, the DeployFunc callback would be where you would define the interaction
with the Cloud Run APIs.

A platform component can be created by implementing the Platform interface, Platform has a single function DeployFunc from
which you return a function which will be called by Waypoint.

```go
type Platform interface {
  DeployFunc() interface{}
}
```

The following code snippet shows an example of the implementation of `DeployFunc`, the signature for the function returned
from DeployFunc can be defined to accept the Default Mappers, in addition it can accept the data model which was returned
from the `Registry` component.

```go
type Platform struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (p *Platform) DeployFunc() interface{} {
  return d.Deploy
}

func (p *Platform) Deploy(
  ctx context.Context,
  ji *component.JobInfo,
  artifact *registry.Artifact,
  hc history.Client,
  ui terminal.UI,
) (*Deployment, error)
```
