website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/registry.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Registry'
description: |-
  How to implement the Registry component for a Waypoint plugin
---

# Registry

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Registry

The registry component handles the storage of the built assets in an artifact registry such as Docker registry,
GitHub releases, or Artifactory.

![Authenticator](/img/extending-waypoint/build.png)

To build a plugin which allows the storage of assets you need to implement the `PushFunc` method from the
`Registry` interface in your component.

```go
type Registry interface {
  PushFunc() interface{}
}
```

The signature for the function returned by PushFunc accepts the usual Default Mappers in addition, the data
model which was returned as the first output parameter from BuildFunc can also be specified. The output parameters
from this function are a data model which contains the details of the published artifact and an error message.

```go
type Registry struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (r *Registry) PushFunc() interface{} {
  return r.push
}

func (r *Registry) push(
  ctx context.Context,
  img *builder.Binary,
  ui terminal.UI,
) (*Artifact, error) {
```

The data model Artifact shown in the previous example will be made available to be injected into a function in a
later stage of the Waypoint lifecycle.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/registry.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Registry'
description: |-
  How to implement the Registry component for a Waypoint plugin
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Registry

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/component#Registry

The registry component handles the storage of the built assets in an artifact registry such as Docker registry,
GitHub releases, or Artifactory.

![Authenticator](/img/extending-waypoint/build.png)

To build a plugin which allows the storage of assets you need to implement the `PushFunc` method from the
`Registry` interface in your component.

```go
type Registry interface {
  PushFunc() interface{}
}
```

The signature for the function returned by PushFunc accepts the usual Default Mappers in addition, the data
model which was returned as the first output parameter from BuildFunc can also be specified. The output parameters
from this function are a data model which contains the details of the published artifact and an error message.

```go
type Registry struct {
  // Other component fields
}

func (r *Registry) PushFunc() interface{} {
  return r.push
}

func (r *Registry) push(
  ctx context.Context,
  img *builder.Binary,
  ui terminal.UI,
) (*Artifact, error) {
```

The data model Artifact shown in the previous example will be made available to be injected into a function in a
later stage of the Waypoint lifecycle.
