website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/api/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'API'
description: |-
  Using Waypoint's HTTP API
---

# API

Waypoint comes with a full HTTP API which lets you write your own integrations
for managing your own applications and projects. This API comes with an OpenAPI
2.0 (Swagger) specification which can be used to generate HTTP clients in any
language using only the specification. This API is served on the same port as
Waypoint's UI and every call is prefixed with `/v1` on self-managed Waypoint
and `/waypoint/2022-02-03/namespace/{namespace_id}` for HCP.

An up-to-date version of this specification can be found on [Github](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/pkg/server/gen/server.swagger.json).

We have also provided an example
[Waypoint-client](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-client) in Go for
getting started
today with Waypoint's HTTP API in your own projects.

## Authentication

Waypoint's HTTP API requires authentication for any methods in which the
underlying gRPC method would require a Waypoint token. In order to start making
calls with Waypoint's HTTP API, you must provide a valid Waypoint token in the
`Authentication` header for each request.

### HCP

Using the Waypoint HTTP API on HCP requires the base path to be modified to
contain your specific namespace ID before any API calls will be successful. An
example on how to retrieve this ID for HCP is available in our
[Waypoint-client](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-client) in Go.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/api/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'API'
description: |-
  Using Waypoint's HTTP API
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# API

Waypoint comes with a full HTTP API which lets you write your own integrations
for managing your own applications and projects. This API comes with an OpenAPI
2.0 (Swagger) specification which can be used to generate HTTP clients in any
language using only the specification. This API is served on the same port as
Waypoint's UI and every call is prefixed with `/v1` on self-managed Waypoint
and `/waypoint/2022-02-03/namespace/{namespace_id}` for HCP.

An up-to-date version of this specification can be found on [Github](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/pkg/server/gen/server.swagger.json).

We have also provided an example
[Waypoint-client](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-client) in Go for
getting started
today with Waypoint's HTTP API in your own projects.

## Authentication

Waypoint's HTTP API requires authentication for any methods in which the
underlying gRPC method would require a Waypoint token. In order to start making
calls with Waypoint's HTTP API, you must provide a valid Waypoint token in the
`Authentication` header for each request.

### HCP

Using the Waypoint HTTP API on HCP requires the base path to be modified to
contain your specific namespace ID before any API calls will be successful. An
example on how to retrieve this ID for HCP is available in our
[Waypoint-client](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-client) in Go.
