website/content/docs/server/auth/tokens.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Tokens
description: |-
  Waypoint uses tokens to control access to the Waypoint server and bound the permissions of users, runners, and entrypoints.
---

# Tokens

Waypoint uses tokens to control access to the Waypoint server and bound
the permissions of users, runners, and entrypoints. A handful of Waypoint
endpoints are necessarily unauthenticated (including BootstrapToken and
GetVersionInfo), but all endpoints that interact with users or
applications (excepting authless triggers) require a valid token.

Tokens in Waypoint are base-58 encoded protobuf messages, and contain metadata
including their kind, any associated entities that must be valid at auth time
(users or runners), an expiration date, etc.

The Waypoint server does not store copies of the tokens it creates. Rather,
it includes inside the token an HMAC of the token itself, signed with
a private key known only to the server. Before authenticating a token, the
server verifies the token's HMAC, preventing users from tampering with the
contents of the token.

## Longevity

Tokens may be created with an expiration time, i.e. with the `-expires-in` flag for
`waypoint user token`. After the expiration time is reached, the token cannot
be used to access the Waypoint server. If a token is created without an expiration
date, the token is valid forever.

## Invalidation

Because the Waypoint server does not store Waypoint tokens, tokens cannot be directly
invalidated. User tokens can be rendered useless by deleting the underlying user, and
runner tokens can likewise be invalidated by rejecting the associated runner.

## Token Types

### Invite

Invite tokens are short-lived tokens used to invite new users. The can
be created via `waypoint user invite`. Invite tokens can be exchanged
for login tokens via the `login` command.

### Bootstrap

The bootstrap token is the first token created by the Waypoint server during
[bootstrapping](/waypoint/commands/server-bootstrap). It isn't a distinct token type,
rather it's a user token associated with an automatically generated initial user.
This user can be safely deleted once actual users have been created using the
bootstrap token.

### Login

Login tokens are meant to be supplied to Waypoint users. They are meant
to be used by users to authenticate requests made via the CLI and UI.

A user ID is encoded into Waypoint user tokens. Before authenticating
a request, the Waypoint server verifies that the user associated with
the ID exists (and has not been deleted).

Login tokens backed by valid users have full permission to access
all Waypoint APIs.

### Runner

Runner tokens a kind of Waypoint token issued to runners. They are
created by the `runner token` command, and are automatically issued to
adopted runners. They are used by runners to accept and execute jobs.

Runner IDs and labels are also encoded into runner tokens. The server
validates that the runner ID within the token is adopted or preadopted
by the server, and the labels of the runner have not changed,
before allowing requests.

Beyond these limitations, runner tokens have the same capabilities as
login tokens.

### Entrypoint

A subset of login tokens, entrypoint tokens are meant for use by the
Waypoint custom entrypoint.

As part of each deployment, the Waypoint runner will create a new entrypoint token
and make it available to the deployment process (generally via an environment variable
embedded in the platform's deployment spec). The Waypoint entrypoint uses this
to authenticate to the server and receive app configuration changes, commands
issued via `waypoint exec`, communicate logs, etc.

Entrypoint tokens are only allowed on RPCs prefixed with "Entrypoint". As such,
Entrypoint tokens cannot be used to manage users, generate new tokens, create deployments,
etc.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/server/auth/tokens.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Tokens
description: |-
  Waypoint uses tokens to control access to the Waypoint server and bound the permissions of users, runners, and entrypoints.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Tokens

Waypoint uses tokens to control access to the Waypoint server and bound
the permissions of users, runners, and entrypoints. A handful of Waypoint
endpoints are necessarily unauthenticated (including BootstrapToken and
GetVersionInfo), but all endpoints that interact with users or
applications (excepting authless triggers) require a valid token.

Tokens in Waypoint are base-58 encoded protobuf messages, and contain metadata
including their kind, any associated entities that must be valid at auth time
(users or runners), an expiration date, etc.

The Waypoint server does not store copies of the tokens it creates. Rather,
it includes inside the token an HMAC of the token itself, signed with
a private key known only to the server. Before authenticating a token, the
server verifies the token's HMAC, preventing users from tampering with the
contents of the token.

## Longevity

Tokens may be created with an expiration time, i.e. with the `-expires-in` flag for
`waypoint user token`. After the expiration time is reached, the token cannot
be used to access the Waypoint server. If a token is created without an expiration
date, the token is valid forever.

## Invalidation

Because the Waypoint server does not store Waypoint tokens, tokens cannot be directly
invalidated. User tokens can be rendered useless by deleting the underlying user, and
runner tokens can likewise be invalidated by rejecting the associated runner.

## Token Types

### Invite

Invite tokens are short-lived tokens used to invite new users. The can
be created via `waypoint user invite`. Invite tokens can be exchanged
for login tokens via the `login` command.

### Bootstrap

The bootstrap token is the first token created by the Waypoint server during
[bootstrapping](/waypoint/commands/server-bootstrap). It isn't a distinct token type,
rather it's a user token associated with an automatically generated initial user.
This user can be safely deleted once actual users have been created using the
bootstrap token.

### Login

Login tokens are meant to be supplied to Waypoint users. They are meant
to be used by users to authenticate requests made via the CLI and UI.

A user ID is encoded into Waypoint user tokens. Before authenticating
a request, the Waypoint server verifies that the user associated with
the ID exists (and has not been deleted).

Login tokens backed by valid users have full permission to access
all Waypoint APIs.

### Runner

Runner tokens a kind of Waypoint token issued to runners. They are
created by the `runner token` command, and are automatically issued to
adopted runners. They are used by runners to accept and execute jobs.

Runner IDs and labels are also encoded into runner tokens. The server
validates that the runner ID within the token is adopted or preadopted
by the server, and the labels of the runner have not changed,
before allowing requests.

Beyond these limitations, runner tokens have the same capabilities as
login tokens.

### Entrypoint

A subset of login tokens, entrypoint tokens are meant for use by the
Waypoint custom entrypoint.

As part of each deployment, the Waypoint runner will create a new entrypoint token
and make it available to the deployment process (generally via an environment variable
embedded in the platform's deployment spec). The Waypoint entrypoint uses this
to authenticate to the server and receive app configuration changes, commands
issued via `waypoint exec`, communicate logs, etc.

Entrypoint tokens are only allowed on RPCs prefixed with "Entrypoint". As such,
Entrypoint tokens cannot be used to manage users, generate new tokens, create deployments,
etc.
