website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax/expressions.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Expressions - Syntax - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  Expressions are used to refer to or compute values within a configuration. The simplest expressions are just literal values, like `"hello"` or `5`, but the Waypoint configuration also allows more complex expressions such as arithmetic, conditional evaluation, and a number of built-in functions.
---

# Expressions

Expressions are used to refer to or compute values within a configuration.
The simplest expressions are just literal values, like `"hello"` or `5`,
but the Waypoint configuration also allows more complex expressions such as
references to attributes exported by previous stages, arithmetic, conditional evaluation,
and a number of built-in functions.

The rest of this page describes all of the expressions in Waypoint's configuration language.
This page is very long so we recommend using the "Jump to Section" dropdown
beneath the header above to more easily navigate.

## Types and Values

The result of an expression is a _value_. All values have a _type_, which
dictates where that value can be used and what transformations can be
applied to it. Waypoint configuration uses the following types for its values:

- `string`: a sequence of Unicode characters representing some text, like
  `"hello"`.
- `number`: a numeric value. The `number` type can represent both whole
  numbers like `15` and fractional values like `6.283185`.
- `bool`: either `true` or `false`. `bool` values can be used in conditional
  logic.
- `list` (or `tuple`): a sequence of values, like
  `["us-west-1a", "us-west-1c"]`. Elements in a list or tuple are identified by
  consecutive whole numbers, starting with zero.
- `map` (or `object`): a group of values identified by named labels, like
  `{name = "Mabel", age = 52}`.

Strings, numbers, and bools are sometimes called _primitive types._ Lists/tuples and maps/objects are sometimes called _complex types,_ _structural types,_ or _collection types._

Finally, there is one special value that has _no_ type:

- `null`: a value that represents _absence_ or _omission._ If you set a
  parameter value to `null`, Waypoint behaves as though you
  had completely omitted it — it will use the argument's default value if it has
  one, or raise an error if the argument is mandatory. `null` is most useful in
  conditional expressions, so you can dynamically omit an argument if a
  condition isn't met.

### Type Conversion

Where possible, Waypoint automatically converts values from one type to
another in order to produce the expected type. If this isn't possible, Waypoint
will produce a type mismatch error and you must update the configuration with a
more suitable expression.

Waypoint automatically converts number and bool values to strings when needed.
It also converts strings to numbers or bools, as long as the string contains a
valid representation of a number or bool value.

- `true` converts to `"true"`, and vice-versa
- `false` converts to `"false"`, and vice-versa
- `15` converts to `"15"`, and vice-versa

## Literal Expressions

A _literal expression_ is an expression that directly represents a particular
constant value. Waypoint has a literal expression syntax for each of the value
types described above:

- Strings are usually represented by a double-quoted sequence of Unicode
  characters, `"like this"`. There is also a "heredoc" syntax for more complex
  strings. String literals are the most complex kind of literal expression in
  Waypoint, and have additional documentation on this page:
  - See [String Literals](#string-literals) below for information about escape
    sequences and the heredoc syntax.
  - See [String Templates](#string-templates) below for information about
    interpolation and template directives.
- Numbers are represented by unquoted sequences of digits with or without a
  decimal point, like `15` or `6.283185`.
- Bools are represented by the unquoted symbols `true` and `false`.
- The null value is represented by the unquoted symbol `null`.
- Lists/tuples are represented by a pair of square brackets containing a
  comma-separated sequence of values, like `["a", 15, true]`.

  List literals can be split into multiple lines for readability, but always
  require a comma between values. A comma after the final value is allowed,
  but not required. Values in a list can be arbitrary expressions.

- Maps/objects are represented by a pair of curly braces containing a series of
  `<KEY> = <VALUE>` pairs:

  ```hcl
  {
    name = "John"
    age  = 52
  }
  ```

  Key/value pairs can be separated by either a comma or a line break. Values
  can be arbitrary expressions. Keys are strings; they can be left unquoted if
  they are a valid [identifier](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax#identifiers), but must be quoted
  otherwise. You can use a non-literal expression as a key by wrapping it in
  parentheses, like `(var.business_unit_tag_name) = "SRE"`.

## Indices and Attributes

[inpage-index]: #indices-and-attributes

Elements of list/tuple and map/object values can be accessed using
the square-bracket index notation, like `local.list[3]`. The expression within
the brackets must be a whole number for list and tuple values or a string
for map and object values.

Map/object attributes with names that are valid identifiers can also be accessed
using the dot-separated attribute notation, like `local.object.attrname`.
In cases where a map might contain arbitrary user-specified keys, we recommend
using only the square-bracket index notation (`local.map["keyname"]`).

## Arithmetic and Logical Operators

An _operator_ is a type of expression that transforms or combines one or more
other expressions. Operators either combine two values in some way to
produce a third result value, or transform a single given value to
produce a single result.

Operators that work on two values place an operator symbol between the two
values, similar to mathematical notation: `1 + 2`. Operators that work on
only one value place an operator symbol before that value, like
`!true`.

Waypoint configuration has a set of operators for both arithmetic and logic,
which are similar to operators in programming languages such as JavaScript
or Ruby.

When multiple operators are used together in an expression, they are evaluated
in the following order of operations:

1. `!`, `-` (multiplication by `-1`)
1. `*`, `/`, `%`
1. `+`, `-` (subtraction)
1. `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`
1. `==`, `!=`
1. `&&`
1. `||`

Parentheses can be used to override the default order of operations. Without
parentheses, higher levels are evaluated first, so `1 + 2 * 3` is interpreted
as `1 + (2 * 3)` and _not_ as `(1 + 2) * 3`.

The different operators can be gathered into a few different groups with
similar behavior, as described below. Each group of operators expects its
given values to be of a particular type. Waypoint will attempt to convert
values to the required type automatically, or will produce an error message
if this automatic conversion is not possible.

### Arithmetic Operators

The arithmetic operators all expect number values and produce number values
as results:

- `a + b` returns the result of adding `a` and `b` together.
- `a - b` returns the result of subtracting `b` from `a`.
- `a * b` returns the result of multiplying `a` and `b`.
- `a / b` returns the result of dividing `a` by `b`.
- `a % b` returns the remainder of dividing `a` by `b`. This operator is
  generally useful only when used with whole numbers.
- `-a` returns the result of multiplying `a` by `-1`.

### Equality Operators

The equality operators both take two values of any type and produce boolean
values as results.

- `a == b` returns `true` if `a` and `b` both have the same type and the same
  value, or `false` otherwise.
- `a != b` is the opposite of `a == b`.

### Comparison Operators

The comparison operators all expect number values and produce boolean values
as results.

- `a < b` returns `true` if `a` is less than `b`, or `false` otherwise.
- `a <= b` returns `true` if `a` is less than or equal to `b`, or `false`
  otherwise.
- `a > b` returns `true` if `a` is greater than `b`, or `false` otherwise.
- `a >= b` returns `true` if `a` is greater than or equal to `b`, or `false` otherwise.

### Logical Operators

The logical operators all expect bool values and produce bool values as results.

- `a || b` returns `true` if either `a` or `b` is `true`, or `false` if both are `false`.
- `a && b` returns `true` if both `a` and `b` are `true`, or `false` if either one is `false`.
- `!a` returns `true` if `a` is `false`, and `false` if `a` is `true`.

## Conditional Expressions

A _conditional expression_ uses the value of a bool expression to select one of
two values.

The syntax of a conditional expression is as follows:

```hcl
condition ? true_val : false_val
```

If `condition` is `true` then the result is `true_val`. If `condition` is
`false` then the result is `false_val`.

A common use of conditional expressions is to define defaults to replace
invalid values:

```
var.a != "" ? var.a : "default-a"
```

If `var.a` is an empty string then the result is `"default-a"`, but otherwise
it is the actual value of `var.a`.

Any of the equality, comparison, and logical operators can be used to define
the condition. The two result values may be of any type, but they must both
be of the _same_ type so that Waypoint can determine what type the whole
conditional expression will return without knowing the condition value.

## Function Calls

Waypoint configuration has a number of
[built-in functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions) that can be used
within expressions as another way to transform and combine values. These
are similar to the operators but all follow a common syntax:

```hcl
<FUNCTION NAME>(<ARGUMENT 1>, <ARGUMENT 2>)
```

The function name specifies which function to call. Each defined function
expects a specific number of arguments with specific value types, and returns a
specific value type as a result.

Some functions take an arbitrary number of arguments. For example, the `min`
function takes any amount of number arguments and returns the one that is
numerically smallest:

```hcl
min(55, 3453, 2)
```

### Expanding Function Arguments

If the arguments to pass to a function are available in a list or tuple value,
that value can be _expanded_ into separate arguments. Provide the list value as
an argument and follow it with the `...` symbol:

```hcl
min([55, 2453, 2]...)
```

The expansion symbol is three periods (`...`), not a Unicode ellipsis character
(`…`). Expansion is a special syntax that is only available in function calls.

### Available Functions

For a full list of available functions, see
[the function reference](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/all).

## `for` Expressions

A _`for` expression_ creates a complex type value by transforming
another complex type value. Each element in the input value
can correspond to either one or zero values in the result, and an arbitrary
expression can be used to transform each input element into an output element.

For example, if `var.list` is a list of strings, then the following expression
produces a list of strings with all-uppercase letters:

```hcl
[for s in var.list : upper(s)]
```

This `for` expression iterates over each element of `var.list`, and then
evaluates the expression `upper(s)` with `s` set to each respective element.
It then builds a new tuple value with all of the results of executing that
expression in the same order.

The type of brackets around the `for` expression decide what type of result
it produces. The above example uses `[` and `]`, which produces a tuple. If
`{` and `}` are used instead, the result is an object, and two result
expressions must be provided separated by the `=>` symbol:

```hcl
{for s in var.list : s => upper(s)}
```

This expression produces an object whose attributes are the original elements
from `var.list` and their corresponding values are the uppercase versions.

A `for` expression can also include an optional `if` clause to filter elements
from the source collection, which can produce a value with fewer elements than
the source:

```
[for s in var.list : upper(s) if s != ""]
```

The source value can also be an object or map value, in which case two
temporary variable names can be provided to access the keys and values
respectively:

```
[for k, v in var.map : length(k) + length(v)]
```

Finally, if the result type is an object (using `{` and `}` delimiters) then
the value result expression can be followed by the `...` symbol to group
together results that have a common key:

```
{for s in var.list : substr(s, 0, 1) => s... if s != ""}
```

## Splat Expressions

A _splat expression_ is a concise way to express a common
operation that could otherwise be performed with a `for` expression.

If `var.list` is a list of objects that all have an attribute `id`, then
a list of the ids could be produced with the following `for` expression:

```hcl
[for o in var.list : o.id]
```

This is equivalent to the following _splat expression:_

```hcl
var.list[*].id
```

The special `[*]` symbol iterates over all of the elements of the list given
to its left and accesses from each one the attribute name given on its
right. A splat expression can also be used to access attributes and indexes
from lists of complex types by extending the sequence of operations to the
right of the symbol:

```hcl
var.list[*].interfaces[0].name
```

The above expression is equivalent to the following `for` expression:

```hcl
[for o in var.list : o.interfaces[0].name]
```

## String Literals

Waypoint configuration has two different syntaxes for string literals. The
most common is to delimit the string with quote characters (`"`), like
`"hello"`. In quoted strings, the backslash character serves as an escape
sequence, with the following characters selecting the escape behavior:

| Sequence     | Replacement                                                                   |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `\n`         | Newline                                                                       |
| `\r`         | Carriage Return                                                               |
| `\t`         | Tab                                                                           |
| `\"`         | Literal quote (without terminating the string)                                |
| `\\`         | Literal backslash                                                             |
| `\uNNNN`     | Unicode character from the basic multilingual plane (NNNN is four hex digits) |
| `\UNNNNNNNN` | Unicode character from supplementary planes (NNNNNNNN is eight hex digits)    |

The alternative syntax for string literals is the so-called "heredoc" style,
inspired by Unix shell languages. This style allows multi-line strings to
be expressed more clearly by using a custom delimiter word on a line of its
own to close the string:

```hcl
<<EOT
hello
world
EOT
```

The `<<` marker followed by any identifier at the end of a line introduces the
sequence. Waypoint then processes the following lines until it finds one that
consists entirely of the identifier given in the introducer. In the above
example, `EOT` is the identifier selected. Any identifier is allowed, but
conventionally this identifier is in all-uppercase and begins with `EO`, meaning
"end of". `EOT` in this case stands for "end of text".

The "heredoc" form shown above requires that the lines following be flush with
the left margin, which can be awkward when an expression is inside an indented
stanza:

```hcl
stanza {
  value = <<EOT
hello
world
EOT
}
```

To improve on this, Waypoint also accepts an _indented_ heredoc string variant
that is introduced by the `<<-` sequence:

```hcl
stanza {
  value = <<-EOT
  hello
    world
  EOT
}
```

In this case, Waypoint analyses the lines in the sequence to find the one
with the smallest number of leading spaces, and then trims that many spaces
from the beginning of all of the lines, leading to the following result:

```
hello
  world
```

Backslash sequences are not interpreted in a heredoc string expression.
Instead, the backslash character is interpreted literally.

In both quoted and heredoc string expressions, Waypoint supports template
sequences that begin with `${` and `%{`. These are described in more detail
in the following section. To include these sequences _literally_ without
beginning a template sequence, double the leading character: `$${` or `%%{`.

## String Templates

Within quoted and heredoc string expressions, the sequences `${` and `%{` begin
_template sequences_. Templates let you directly embed expressions into a string
literal, to dynamically construct strings from other values.

### Interpolation

A `${ ... }` sequence is an _interpolation,_ which evaluates the expression
given between the markers, converts the result to a string if necessary, and
then inserts it into the final string:

```hcl
"Hello, ${var.name}!"
```

In the above example, the named object `var.name` is accessed and its value
inserted into the string, producing a result like "Hello, Juan!".

### Directives

A `%{ ... }` sequence is a _directive_, which allows for conditional
results and iteration over collections, similar to conditional
and `for` expressions.

The following directives are supported:

- The `if <BOOL>`/`else`/`endif` directive chooses between two templates based
  on the value of a bool expression:

  ```hcl
  "Hello, %{ if var.name != "" }${var.name}%{ else }unnamed%{ endif }!"
  ```

  The `else` portion may be omitted, in which case the result is an empty
  string if the condition expression returns `false`.

- The `for <NAME> in <COLLECTION>` / `endfor` directive iterates over the
  elements of a given collection or structural value and evaluates a given
  template once for each element, concatenating the results together:

  ```hcl
  <<EOT
  %{ for ip in ips }
  server ${ip}
  %{ endfor }
  EOT
  ```

  The name given immediately after the `for` keyword is used as a temporary
  variable name which can then be referenced from the nested template.

To allow template directives to be formatted for readability without adding
unwanted spaces and newlines to the result, all template sequences can include
optional _strip markers_ (`~`), immediately after the opening characters or
immediately before the end. When a strip marker is present, the template
sequence consumes all of the literal whitespace (spaces and newlines) either
before the sequence (if the marker appears at the beginning) or after (if the
marker appears at the end):

```hcl
<<EOT
%{ for ip in ips ~}
server ${ip}
%{ endfor ~}
EOT
```

In the above example, the newline after each of the directives is not included
in the output, but the newline after the `server ${ip}` sequence is retained,
causing only one line to be generated for each element:

```
server 10.1.16.154
server 10.1.16.1
server 10.1.16.34
```

When using template directives, we recommend always using the "heredoc" string
literal form and then formatting the template over multiple lines for
readability. Quoted string literals should usually include only interpolation
sequences.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax/expressions.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Expressions - Syntax - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  Expressions are used to refer to or compute values within a configuration. The simplest expressions are just literal values, like `"hello"` or `5`, but the Waypoint configuration also allows more complex expressions such as arithmetic, conditional evaluation, and a number of built-in functions.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Expressions

Expressions are used to refer to or compute values within a configuration.
The simplest expressions are just literal values, like `"hello"` or `5`,
but the Waypoint configuration also allows more complex expressions such as
references to attributes exported by previous stages, arithmetic, conditional evaluation,
and a number of built-in functions.

The rest of this page describes all of the expressions in Waypoint's configuration language.
This page is very long so we recommend using the "Jump to Section" dropdown
beneath the header above to more easily navigate.

## Types and Values

The result of an expression is a _value_. All values have a _type_, which
dictates where that value can be used and what transformations can be
applied to it. Waypoint configuration uses the following types for its values:

- `string`: a sequence of Unicode characters representing some text, like
  `"hello"`.
- `number`: a numeric value. The `number` type can represent both whole
  numbers like `15` and fractional values like `6.283185`.
- `bool`: either `true` or `false`. `bool` values can be used in conditional
  logic.
- `list` (or `tuple`): a sequence of values, like
  `["us-west-1a", "us-west-1c"]`. Elements in a list or tuple are identified by
  consecutive whole numbers, starting with zero.
- `map` (or `object`): a group of values identified by named labels, like
  `{name = "Mabel", age = 52}`.

Strings, numbers, and bools are sometimes called _primitive types._ Lists/tuples and maps/objects are sometimes called _complex types,_ _structural types,_ or _collection types._

Finally, there is one special value that has _no_ type:

- `null`: a value that represents _absence_ or _omission._ If you set a
  parameter value to `null`, Waypoint behaves as though you
  had completely omitted it — it will use the argument's default value if it has
  one, or raise an error if the argument is mandatory. `null` is most useful in
  conditional expressions, so you can dynamically omit an argument if a
  condition isn't met.

### Type Conversion

Where possible, Waypoint automatically converts values from one type to
another in order to produce the expected type. If this isn't possible, Waypoint
will produce a type mismatch error and you must update the configuration with a
more suitable expression.

Waypoint automatically converts number and bool values to strings when needed.
It also converts strings to numbers or bools, as long as the string contains a
valid representation of a number or bool value.

- `true` converts to `"true"`, and vice-versa
- `false` converts to `"false"`, and vice-versa
- `15` converts to `"15"`, and vice-versa

## Literal Expressions

A _literal expression_ is an expression that directly represents a particular
constant value. Waypoint has a literal expression syntax for each of the value
types described above:

- Strings are usually represented by a double-quoted sequence of Unicode
  characters, `"like this"`. There is also a "heredoc" syntax for more complex
  strings. String literals are the most complex kind of literal expression in
  Waypoint, and have additional documentation on this page:
  - See [String Literals](#string-literals) below for information about escape
    sequences and the heredoc syntax.
  - See [String Templates](#string-templates) below for information about
    interpolation and template directives.
- Numbers are represented by unquoted sequences of digits with or without a
  decimal point, like `15` or `6.283185`.
- Bools are represented by the unquoted symbols `true` and `false`.
- The null value is represented by the unquoted symbol `null`.
- Lists/tuples are represented by a pair of square brackets containing a
  comma-separated sequence of values, like `["a", 15, true]`.

  List literals can be split into multiple lines for readability, but always
  require a comma between values. A comma after the final value is allowed,
  but not required. Values in a list can be arbitrary expressions.

- Maps/objects are represented by a pair of curly braces containing a series of
  `<KEY> = <VALUE>` pairs:

  ```hcl
  {
    name = "John"
    age  = 52
  }
  ```

  Key/value pairs can be separated by either a comma or a line break. Values
  can be arbitrary expressions. Keys are strings; they can be left unquoted if
  they are a valid [identifier](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax#identifiers), but must be quoted
  otherwise. You can use a non-literal expression as a key by wrapping it in
  parentheses, like `(var.business_unit_tag_name) = "SRE"`.

## Indices and Attributes

[inpage-index]: #indices-and-attributes

Elements of list/tuple and map/object values can be accessed using
the square-bracket index notation, like `local.list[3]`. The expression within
the brackets must be a whole number for list and tuple values or a string
for map and object values.

Map/object attributes with names that are valid identifiers can also be accessed
using the dot-separated attribute notation, like `local.object.attrname`.
In cases where a map might contain arbitrary user-specified keys, we recommend
using only the square-bracket index notation (`local.map["keyname"]`).

## Arithmetic and Logical Operators

An _operator_ is a type of expression that transforms or combines one or more
other expressions. Operators either combine two values in some way to
produce a third result value, or transform a single given value to
produce a single result.

Operators that work on two values place an operator symbol between the two
values, similar to mathematical notation: `1 + 2`. Operators that work on
only one value place an operator symbol before that value, like
`!true`.

Waypoint configuration has a set of operators for both arithmetic and logic,
which are similar to operators in programming languages such as JavaScript
or Ruby.

When multiple operators are used together in an expression, they are evaluated
in the following order of operations:

1. `!`, `-` (multiplication by `-1`)
1. `*`, `/`, `%`
1. `+`, `-` (subtraction)
1. `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`
1. `==`, `!=`
1. `&&`
1. `||`

Parentheses can be used to override the default order of operations. Without
parentheses, higher levels are evaluated first, so `1 + 2 * 3` is interpreted
as `1 + (2 * 3)` and _not_ as `(1 + 2) * 3`.

The different operators can be gathered into a few different groups with
similar behavior, as described below. Each group of operators expects its
given values to be of a particular type. Waypoint will attempt to convert
values to the required type automatically, or will produce an error message
if this automatic conversion is not possible.

### Arithmetic Operators

The arithmetic operators all expect number values and produce number values
as results:

- `a + b` returns the result of adding `a` and `b` together.
- `a - b` returns the result of subtracting `b` from `a`.
- `a * b` returns the result of multiplying `a` and `b`.
- `a / b` returns the result of dividing `a` by `b`.
- `a % b` returns the remainder of dividing `a` by `b`. This operator is
  generally useful only when used with whole numbers.
- `-a` returns the result of multiplying `a` by `-1`.

### Equality Operators

The equality operators both take two values of any type and produce boolean
values as results.

- `a == b` returns `true` if `a` and `b` both have the same type and the same
  value, or `false` otherwise.
- `a != b` is the opposite of `a == b`.

### Comparison Operators

The comparison operators all expect number values and produce boolean values
as results.

- `a < b` returns `true` if `a` is less than `b`, or `false` otherwise.
- `a <= b` returns `true` if `a` is less than or equal to `b`, or `false`
  otherwise.
- `a > b` returns `true` if `a` is greater than `b`, or `false` otherwise.
- `a >= b` returns `true` if `a` is greater than or equal to `b`, or `false` otherwise.

### Logical Operators

The logical operators all expect bool values and produce bool values as results.

- `a || b` returns `true` if either `a` or `b` is `true`, or `false` if both are `false`.
- `a && b` returns `true` if both `a` and `b` are `true`, or `false` if either one is `false`.
- `!a` returns `true` if `a` is `false`, and `false` if `a` is `true`.

## Conditional Expressions

A _conditional expression_ uses the value of a bool expression to select one of
two values.

The syntax of a conditional expression is as follows:

```hcl
condition ? true_val : false_val
```

If `condition` is `true` then the result is `true_val`. If `condition` is
`false` then the result is `false_val`.

A common use of conditional expressions is to define defaults to replace
invalid values:

```
var.a != "" ? var.a : "default-a"
```

If `var.a` is an empty string then the result is `"default-a"`, but otherwise
it is the actual value of `var.a`.

Any of the equality, comparison, and logical operators can be used to define
the condition. The two result values may be of any type, but they must both
be of the _same_ type so that Waypoint can determine what type the whole
conditional expression will return without knowing the condition value.

## Function Calls

Waypoint configuration has a number of
[built-in functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions) that can be used
within expressions as another way to transform and combine values. These
are similar to the operators but all follow a common syntax:

```hcl
<FUNCTION NAME>(<ARGUMENT 1>, <ARGUMENT 2>)
```

The function name specifies which function to call. Each defined function
expects a specific number of arguments with specific value types, and returns a
specific value type as a result.

Some functions take an arbitrary number of arguments. For example, the `min`
function takes any amount of number arguments and returns the one that is
numerically smallest:

```hcl
min(55, 3453, 2)
```

### Expanding Function Arguments

If the arguments to pass to a function are available in a list or tuple value,
that value can be _expanded_ into separate arguments. Provide the list value as
an argument and follow it with the `...` symbol:

```hcl
min([55, 2453, 2]...)
```

The expansion symbol is three periods (`...`), not a Unicode ellipsis character
(`…`). Expansion is a special syntax that is only available in function calls.

### Available Functions

For a full list of available functions, see
[the function reference](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/all).

## `for` Expressions

A _`for` expression_ creates a complex type value by transforming
another complex type value. Each element in the input value
can correspond to either one or zero values in the result, and an arbitrary
expression can be used to transform each input element into an output element.

For example, if `var.list` is a list of strings, then the following expression
produces a list of strings with all-uppercase letters:

```hcl
[for s in var.list : upper(s)]
```

This `for` expression iterates over each element of `var.list`, and then
evaluates the expression `upper(s)` with `s` set to each respective element.
It then builds a new tuple value with all of the results of executing that
expression in the same order.

The type of brackets around the `for` expression decide what type of result
it produces. The above example uses `[` and `]`, which produces a tuple. If
`{` and `}` are used instead, the result is an object, and two result
expressions must be provided separated by the `=>` symbol:

```hcl
{for s in var.list : s => upper(s)}
```

This expression produces an object whose attributes are the original elements
from `var.list` and their corresponding values are the uppercase versions.

A `for` expression can also include an optional `if` clause to filter elements
from the source collection, which can produce a value with fewer elements than
the source:

```
[for s in var.list : upper(s) if s != ""]
```

The source value can also be an object or map value, in which case two
temporary variable names can be provided to access the keys and values
respectively:

```
[for k, v in var.map : length(k) + length(v)]
```

Finally, if the result type is an object (using `{` and `}` delimiters) then
the value result expression can be followed by the `...` symbol to group
together results that have a common key:

```
{for s in var.list : substr(s, 0, 1) => s... if s != ""}
```

## Splat Expressions

A _splat expression_ is a concise way to express a common
operation that could otherwise be performed with a `for` expression.

If `var.list` is a list of objects that all have an attribute `id`, then
a list of the ids could be produced with the following `for` expression:

```hcl
[for o in var.list : o.id]
```

This is equivalent to the following _splat expression:_

```hcl
var.list[*].id
```

The special `[*]` symbol iterates over all of the elements of the list given
to its left and accesses from each one the attribute name given on its
right. A splat expression can also be used to access attributes and indexes
from lists of complex types by extending the sequence of operations to the
right of the symbol:

```hcl
var.list[*].interfaces[0].name
```

The above expression is equivalent to the following `for` expression:

```hcl
[for o in var.list : o.interfaces[0].name]
```

## String Literals

Waypoint configuration has two different syntaxes for string literals. The
most common is to delimit the string with quote characters (`"`), like
`"hello"`. In quoted strings, the backslash character serves as an escape
sequence, with the following characters selecting the escape behavior:

| Sequence     | Replacement                                                                   |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `\n`         | Newline                                                                       |
| `\r`         | Carriage Return                                                               |
| `\t`         | Tab                                                                           |
| `\"`         | Literal quote (without terminating the string)                                |
| `\\`         | Literal backslash                                                             |
| `\uNNNN`     | Unicode character from the basic multilingual plane (NNNN is four hex digits) |
| `\UNNNNNNNN` | Unicode character from supplementary planes (NNNNNNNN is eight hex digits)    |

The alternative syntax for string literals is the so-called "heredoc" style,
inspired by Unix shell languages. This style allows multi-line strings to
be expressed more clearly by using a custom delimiter word on a line of its
own to close the string:

```hcl
<<EOT
hello
world
EOT
```

The `<<` marker followed by any identifier at the end of a line introduces the
sequence. Waypoint then processes the following lines until it finds one that
consists entirely of the identifier given in the introducer. In the above
example, `EOT` is the identifier selected. Any identifier is allowed, but
conventionally this identifier is in all-uppercase and begins with `EO`, meaning
"end of". `EOT` in this case stands for "end of text".

The "heredoc" form shown above requires that the lines following be flush with
the left margin, which can be awkward when an expression is inside an indented
stanza:

```hcl
stanza {
  value = <<EOT
hello
world
EOT
}
```

To improve on this, Waypoint also accepts an _indented_ heredoc string variant
that is introduced by the `<<-` sequence:

```hcl
stanza {
  value = <<-EOT
  hello
    world
  EOT
}
```

In this case, Waypoint analyses the lines in the sequence to find the one
with the smallest number of leading spaces, and then trims that many spaces
from the beginning of all of the lines, leading to the following result:

```
hello
  world
```

Backslash sequences are not interpreted in a heredoc string expression.
Instead, the backslash character is interpreted literally.

In both quoted and heredoc string expressions, Waypoint supports template
sequences that begin with `${` and `%{`. These are described in more detail
in the following section. To include these sequences _literally_ without
beginning a template sequence, double the leading character: `$${` or `%%{`.

## String Templates

Within quoted and heredoc string expressions, the sequences `${` and `%{` begin
_template sequences_. Templates let you directly embed expressions into a string
literal, to dynamically construct strings from other values.

### Interpolation

A `${ ... }` sequence is an _interpolation,_ which evaluates the expression
given between the markers, converts the result to a string if necessary, and
then inserts it into the final string:

```hcl
"Hello, ${var.name}!"
```

In the above example, the named object `var.name` is accessed and its value
inserted into the string, producing a result like "Hello, Juan!".

### Directives

A `%{ ... }` sequence is a _directive_, which allows for conditional
results and iteration over collections, similar to conditional
and `for` expressions.

The following directives are supported:

- The `if <BOOL>`/`else`/`endif` directive chooses between two templates based
  on the value of a bool expression:

  ```hcl
  "Hello, %{ if var.name != "" }${var.name}%{ else }unnamed%{ endif }!"
  ```

  The `else` portion may be omitted, in which case the result is an empty
  string if the condition expression returns `false`.

- The `for <NAME> in <COLLECTION>` / `endfor` directive iterates over the
  elements of a given collection or structural value and evaluates a given
  template once for each element, concatenating the results together:

  ```hcl
  <<EOT
  %{ for ip in ips }
  server ${ip}
  %{ endfor }
  EOT
  ```

  The name given immediately after the `for` keyword is used as a temporary
  variable name which can then be referenced from the nested template.

To allow template directives to be formatted for readability without adding
unwanted spaces and newlines to the result, all template sequences can include
optional _strip markers_ (`~`), immediately after the opening characters or
immediately before the end. When a strip marker is present, the template
sequence consumes all of the literal whitespace (spaces and newlines) either
before the sequence (if the marker appears at the beginning) or after (if the
marker appears at the end):

```hcl
<<EOT
%{ for ip in ips ~}
server ${ip}
%{ endfor ~}
EOT
```

In the above example, the newline after each of the directives is not included
in the output, but the newline after the `server ${ip}` sequence is retained,
causing only one line to be generated for each element:

```
server 10.1.16.154
server 10.1.16.1
server 10.1.16.34
```

When using template directives, we recommend always using the "heredoc" string
literal form and then formatting the template over multiple lines for
readability. Quoted string literals should usually include only interpolation
sequences.
