website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.2.0.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.2.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.2.0.
---

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.2.0 from 0.1.x

Waypoint 0.1.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.2.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).
There are no breaking changes in the protocol or `waypoint.hcl` configuration file. All
Waypoint components (CLI, entrypoint, and server) are forwards and backwards
compatible, but we encourage users to upgrade all components to 0.2.x over time.

## Other Considerations

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.2`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

![Server Version in the UI](/img/upgrade-0.2.0/version.png)

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify the server version using the following CLI command and inspecting
the log output in the CLI. This command is not a mistake, we don't have a better
way in Waypoint 0.1.x or 0.2.0 to describe the server version. Therefore, we
try to exchange a purposely invalid token with the verbose flag (`-v`) in order
to see the server version advertised.

```shell-session
$ ./waypoint token exchange abcd1234 -v                                           Thu Dec 10 18:48:30 2020
2020-12-10T10:48:33.951-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: waypoint version: full_string="Waypoint v0.1.4-481-g5db76632 (5db76632+CHANGES)" version=v0.1.4-481-g5db76632 prerelease= metadata= revision=5db76632+CHANGES
2020-12-10T10:48:33.951-0800 [INFO]  waypoint.server: attempting to source credentials and connect
2020-12-10T10:48:33.980-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: server version info: version=v0.2.0-177-ed413ab93 api_min=1 api_current=1 entrypoint_min=1 entrypoint_current=1
2020-12-10T10:48:33.980-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: negotiated api version: version=1
! An invite token is required.
  Run `waypoint token invite` to generate an invite token.
```

In this output, find the line starting with `server version info` and verify
that the `version` key has a version starting with `v0.2`. If it starts
with an older version, your platform may be caching the Waypoint Docker image.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.2.0.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.2.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.2.0.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.2.0 from 0.1.x

Waypoint 0.1.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.2.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).
There are no breaking changes in the protocol or `waypoint.hcl` configuration file. All
Waypoint components (CLI, entrypoint, and server) are forwards and backwards
compatible, but we encourage users to upgrade all components to 0.2.x over time.

## Other Considerations

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.2`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

![Server Version in the UI](/img/upgrade-0.2.0/version.png)

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify the server version using the following CLI command and inspecting
the log output in the CLI. This command is not a mistake, we don't have a better
way in Waypoint 0.1.x or 0.2.0 to describe the server version. Therefore, we
try to exchange a purposely invalid token with the verbose flag (`-v`) in order
to see the server version advertised.

```shell-session
$ ./waypoint token exchange abcd1234 -v                                           Thu Dec 10 18:48:30 2020
2020-12-10T10:48:33.951-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: waypoint version: full_string="Waypoint v0.1.4-481-g5db76632 (5db76632+CHANGES)" version=v0.1.4-481-g5db76632 prerelease= metadata= revision=5db76632+CHANGES
2020-12-10T10:48:33.951-0800 [INFO]  waypoint.server: attempting to source credentials and connect
2020-12-10T10:48:33.980-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: server version info: version=v0.2.0-177-ed413ab93 api_min=1 api_current=1 entrypoint_min=1 entrypoint_current=1
2020-12-10T10:48:33.980-0800 [INFO]  waypoint: negotiated api version: version=1
! An invite token is required.
  Run `waypoint token invite` to generate an invite token.
```

In this output, find the line starting with `server version info` and verify
that the `version` key has a version starting with `v0.2`. If it starts
with an older version, your platform may be caching the Waypoint Docker image.
