website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.7.0.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.7.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.7.0.
---

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.7.0 from 0.6.x

Waypoint 0.6.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.7.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).

## Breaking Changes

**[v0.7.0](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/releases/tag/v0.7.0)**

- core: `configdynamic` has been renamed to `dynamic`. The existing function
  name continues to work but is deprecated and may be removed in a future version.
- plugin/docker: `img`-based Dockerless builds are no longer supported.
  Dockerless builds are still fully supported via Kaniko and on-demand
  runners that shipped in Waypoint 0.6. Static runners without access to
  a Docker daemon can no longer build images.

## Other Considerations

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.7`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify both the CLI version and server version by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.7.0 (622f37bd1)
Server: v0.7.0
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.7.0.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.7.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.7.0.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.7.0 from 0.6.x

Waypoint 0.6.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.7.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).

## Breaking Changes

**[v0.7.0](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/releases/tag/v0.7.0)**

- core: `configdynamic` has been renamed to `dynamic`. The existing function
  name continues to work but is deprecated and may be removed in a future version.
- plugin/docker: `img`-based Dockerless builds are no longer supported.
  Dockerless builds are still fully supported via Kaniko and on-demand
  runners that shipped in Waypoint 0.6. Static runners without access to
  a Docker daemon can no longer build images.

## Other Considerations

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.7`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify both the CLI version and server version by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.7.0 (622f37bd1)
Server: v0.7.0
```
