website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.9.0.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.9.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.9.0.
---

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.9.0 from 0.8.x

Waypoint 0.8.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.9.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).
There are some considerations depending on what platform your server is installed on.
There are no breaking changes in the protocol or `waypoint.hcl` configuration file.
Due to the changes in `runner` management, we cannot guarantee that all Waypoint
components (CLI, entrypoint, and server) are forwards and backwards
compatible. We encourage users to have all components on the same version.

## ECS Upgrades

During prerelease testing, we discovered an issue that has exited since the 0.8.1
release, and possibly earlier, that means `waypoint upgrade` does not work on
servers installed on ECS. We found this too late to fix it for the 0.9.0 release,
but plan to fix it for a future release. You can track [the issue here](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues/3527).

If you want to upgrade your Waypoint server installed on ECS, you will need to
snapshot your sever, do a Waypoint server uninstall, complete a new express
install with v0.9.0, and restore your server snapshot. Note that the
`waypoint uninstall` command creates a snapshot by default.
An example is in the below [Kubernetes Upgrades](#kubernetes-upgrades) section.

### Change to Region Flag

We removed the default value for the flag `-ecs-region`. This was previously set
to `us-west-2`. If you used the default on the install of Waypoint to ECS, you will
need to specify `us-west-2` moving forward.

## Kubernetes Upgrades

With 0.9 comes a significant change in how Waypoint manages express server installs.
Waypoint now uses Helm under the hood to all Waypoint components. If you previously
installed with Helm, you can run a standard Waypoint upgrade.

If you previously installed with the Waypoint express install for Kubernetes,
you will need to snapshot your sever, do a Waypoint server uninstall, complete a
new express install with v0.9.0, and restore your server snapshot. Note that the
`waypoint uninstall` command does create a snapshot by default. **It is vitally
important that you set `-delete-context=false` on the uninstall.**
An example is below, showing the following steps:

- verify the Waypoint version
- verify the server connection by checking the status of a deployed and release app
- uninstall the server with `delete-context` set to `false`
- upgrade Waypoint CLI as verified by another version check
- re-install Waypoint server onto k8s
- verify the installed server version
- get the context path
- restore the server snapshot
- overwrite the token in the new context with the token from the previous install's context
- delete the waypoint-server pod
- verify the server snapshot has been succesfully restored by checking `waypoint status` again and seeing the same output as before

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.8.2 (5b8885480)
Server: v0.8.2

$ waypoint status
Current project statuses in server context "localhost:9701"

PROJECT          	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUSES	RELEASE STATUSES
example-nodejs   	default  	1 READY            	1 READY

The projects listed above represent their current state known
in the Waypoint server. For more information about a project’s applications and
their current state, run ‘waypoint status -project=PROJECT-NAME’.

$ waypoint server uninstall -platform=kubernetes -delete-context=false -auto-approve
Uninstalling Waypoint server on platform "kubernetes" with context "install-1657050368"
✓ Snapshot "waypoint-server-snapshot-1657050483" generated
...

Waypoint server successfully uninstalled for kubernetes platform

$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (88a2e83eb)

$ waypoint install -platform=kubernetes
✓ Inspecting Kubernetes cluster
✓ Waypoint server installed with Helm!
...
The CLI has been configured to connect to the server automatically. This
connection information is saved in the CLI context named "install-1657050581".
Use the "waypoint context" CLI to manage CLI contexts.
...

$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (88a2e83eb)
Server: v0.9.0

$ waypoint context inspect

» Context Settings:
      config path: /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint
  default context: install-1657050581

$ waypoint server restore waypoint-server-snapshot-1657050483

$ cp /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint/context/install-1657050368.hcl /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint/context/install-1657050581.hcl

$ kubectl delete pod/waypoint-server-0
pod "waypoint-server-0" deleted

$ waypoint status
Current project statuses in server context "localhost:9701"

PROJECT       	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUSES	RELEASE STATUSES
example-nodejs	default  	1 READY            	1 READY


The projects listed above represent their current state known
in the Waypoint server. For more information about a project’s applications and
their current state, run ‘waypoint status -project=PROJECT-NAME’.
```

## Other Considerations

### Notice of change for multi-app config files

We are exploring the possibility of disallowing the configuration of multiple
applications within a single waypoint.hcl file but want to continue to enable
multi-applications in Waypoint. We are very interested to hear how you
envision configuring multiple applications with Waypoint, and develop our
product in a way that can support your workflows.

Please see [this Discuss post](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/t/deprecating-projects-or-how-i-learned-to-love-apps/40888)
for more information. If you have questions, concerns, or suggestions
about this change in functionality, we invite you to discuss with us there.

### Default runner profiles

After an upgrade, you will have two default runner profiles, as the upgrade
will create a new default runner profile with the new server version.

We recommend you remove old runner profiles that depend on older versions of
the `waypoint-odr` image. Additionally, having only one default runner profile
is recommended so you have consistent behavior.

#### Helm installs

With the Helm upgrade, a new runner profile will not be created. We recommend
overwriting the current default runner profile to update the `waypoint-odr`
image version it uses. You can do that by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=01G68E50FKQA2JZM8Q79C0NQE7 -plugin-type=kubernetes -default
```

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.9`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify both the CLI version and server version by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (622f37bd1)
Server: v0.9.0
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/upgrading/version-guides/0.9.0.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Version 0.9.0 - Upgrade Guide
description: |-
  This upgrade guide describes any considerations for upgrading to Waypoint 0.9.0.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Upgrading to Waypoint 0.9.0 from 0.8.x

Waypoint 0.8.x can be upgraded to Waypoint 0.9.0 using a [standard upgrade](/waypoint/docs/upgrading#standard-upgrade).
There are some considerations depending on what platform your server is installed on.
There are no breaking changes in the protocol or `waypoint.hcl` configuration file.
Due to the changes in `runner` management, we cannot guarantee that all Waypoint
components (CLI, entrypoint, and server) are forwards and backwards
compatible. We encourage users to have all components on the same version.

## ECS Upgrades

During prerelease testing, we discovered an issue that has exited since the 0.8.1
release, and possibly earlier, that means `waypoint upgrade` does not work on
servers installed on ECS. We found this too late to fix it for the 0.9.0 release,
but plan to fix it for a future release. You can track [the issue here](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues/3527).

If you want to upgrade your Waypoint server installed on ECS, you will need to
snapshot your sever, do a Waypoint server uninstall, complete a new express
install with v0.9.0, and restore your server snapshot. Note that the
`waypoint uninstall` command creates a snapshot by default.
An example is in the below [Kubernetes Upgrades](#kubernetes-upgrades) section.

### Change to Region Flag

We removed the default value for the flag `-ecs-region`. This was previously set
to `us-west-2`. If you used the default on the install of Waypoint to ECS, you will
need to specify `us-west-2` moving forward.

## Kubernetes Upgrades

With 0.9 comes a significant change in how Waypoint manages express server installs.
Waypoint now uses Helm under the hood to all Waypoint components. If you previously
installed with Helm, you can run a standard Waypoint upgrade.

If you previously installed with the Waypoint express install for Kubernetes,
you will need to snapshot your sever, do a Waypoint server uninstall, complete a
new express install with v0.9.0, and restore your server snapshot. Note that the
`waypoint uninstall` command does create a snapshot by default. **It is vitally
important that you set `-delete-context=false` on the uninstall.**
An example is below, showing the following steps:

- verify the Waypoint version
- verify the server connection by checking the status of a deployed and release app
- uninstall the server with `delete-context` set to `false`
- upgrade Waypoint CLI as verified by another version check
- re-install Waypoint server onto k8s
- verify the installed server version
- get the context path
- restore the server snapshot
- overwrite the token in the new context with the token from the previous install's context
- delete the waypoint-server pod
- verify the server snapshot has been succesfully restored by checking `waypoint status` again and seeing the same output as before

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.8.2 (5b8885480)
Server: v0.8.2

$ waypoint status
Current project statuses in server context "localhost:9701"

PROJECT          	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUSES	RELEASE STATUSES
example-nodejs   	default  	1 READY            	1 READY

The projects listed above represent their current state known
in the Waypoint server. For more information about a project’s applications and
their current state, run ‘waypoint status -project=PROJECT-NAME’.

$ waypoint server uninstall -platform=kubernetes -delete-context=false -auto-approve
Uninstalling Waypoint server on platform "kubernetes" with context "install-1657050368"
✓ Snapshot "waypoint-server-snapshot-1657050483" generated
...

Waypoint server successfully uninstalled for kubernetes platform

$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (88a2e83eb)

$ waypoint install -platform=kubernetes
✓ Inspecting Kubernetes cluster
✓ Waypoint server installed with Helm!
...
The CLI has been configured to connect to the server automatically. This
connection information is saved in the CLI context named "install-1657050581".
Use the "waypoint context" CLI to manage CLI contexts.
...

$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (88a2e83eb)
Server: v0.9.0

$ waypoint context inspect

» Context Settings:
      config path: /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint
  default context: install-1657050581

$ waypoint server restore waypoint-server-snapshot-1657050483

$ cp /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint/context/install-1657050368.hcl /Users/username/Library/Preferences/waypoint/context/install-1657050581.hcl

$ kubectl delete pod/waypoint-server-0
pod "waypoint-server-0" deleted

$ waypoint status
Current project statuses in server context "localhost:9701"

PROJECT       	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUSES	RELEASE STATUSES
example-nodejs	default  	1 READY            	1 READY


The projects listed above represent their current state known
in the Waypoint server. For more information about a project’s applications and
their current state, run ‘waypoint status -project=PROJECT-NAME’.
```

## Other Considerations

### Notice of change for multi-app config files

We are exploring the possibility of disallowing the configuration of multiple
applications within a single waypoint.hcl file but want to continue to enable
multi-applications in Waypoint. We are very interested to hear how you
envision configuring multiple applications with Waypoint, and develop our
product in a way that can support your workflows.

Please see [this Discuss post](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/t/deprecating-projects-or-how-i-learned-to-love-apps/40888)
for more information. If you have questions, concerns, or suggestions
about this change in functionality, we invite you to discuss with us there.

### Default runner profiles

After an upgrade, you will have two default runner profiles, as the upgrade
will create a new default runner profile with the new server version.

We recommend you remove old runner profiles that depend on older versions of
the `waypoint-odr` image. Additionally, having only one default runner profile
is recommended so you have consistent behavior.

#### Helm installs

With the Helm upgrade, a new runner profile will not be created. We recommend
overwriting the current default runner profile to update the `waypoint-odr`
image version it uses. You can do that by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=01G68E50FKQA2JZM8Q79C0NQE7 -plugin-type=kubernetes -default
```

### Server Image

`waypoint install` uses the `hashicorp/waypoint:latest` container image for
Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, and Docker. When upgrading, your platform may require
you to pull the latest image instead of using a cache.

Kubernetes and Nomad both specify an "always pull" policy for `:latest` images
so restarting the Deployment or Job should pull the latest released version.
Docker may require an explicit `docker pull` and container recreate.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the UI

You can verify the server version by loading the UI and looking at the footer.
You should see a version starting with `v0.9`. If you see an earlier version,
your platform may be using an old cached image.

#### Verifying the Server Version with the CLI

You can verify both the CLI version and server version by running:

```shell-session
$ waypoint version
CLI: v0.9.0 (622f37bd1)
Server: v0.9.0
```
