website/content/docs/pipelines/config.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines Configuration
description: |-
  The page for detailing Waypoint pipeline configurations
---

# Pipeline Configurations

This section details some of the various built-in Step plugins and their
configuration options.

## Step Configurations

Steps have a few basic configuration options that are defined below.

##### name

```hcl
// this step has a label name "my-step-name"
step "my-step-name" {
  use "build" {}
}
```

- Stanza label
- Type: **string**
- **Required**

##### depends_on

A step can depend on many other steps within a pipeline. By default, a step will
always depend on the previously defined step unless `depends_on` is set. No
step cycles are allowed. This means you cannot have steps that depend on other
steps that form a cyclic dependency.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  depends_on = ["step-1", "step-3", "root"]

  use "deploy" {}
}
```

- Type: **Array of strings**
- **Optional**

##### image_url

Currently used only for the `exec` step, this is the container image URL that will be used
to spawn the `exec` pipeline step.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  image_url = "https://example.com:5000/waypoint-odr:latest"

  use "exec" {}
}
```

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### workspace

If set, will override the workspace in which this step runs.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  workspace = "production"

  use "deploy" {}
}
```

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### use

If used in a step, this will denote which "built-in" Step plugin to use.

```hcl
// this step will "use" the build plugin
step "my-step-name" {
  use "build" {}
}
```

- Type: **stanza**

##### pipeline

Steps can also contain embedded pipelines.

Note that it isn't valid to have both a "use" and a "pipeline "stanza inside a Step.

```hcl
// this step has an embedded pipeline
step "my-step-name" {
  pipeline "another-pipeline" {
    step "more" { ... }
  }
}
```

## Built-In Step Config Options

Currently, Pipeline Steps have "built-in" plugins that are backed by the existing
Waypoint job system. See below for examples of each of these built-in Steps and their
parameters.

### `build`

This built-in Step will run a Build operation job, similar to running `waypoint build`.

```hcl
step "my-build-step" {
  use "build" {
    disable_push = false
  }
}
```

##### disable_push

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `deploy`

This built-in Step will run a Deploy operation job, similar to running `waypoint deploy`.

```hcl
step "my-deploy-step" {
  use "deploy" {}
}
```

### `release`

This built-in Step will run a Release operation job, similar to running `waypoint release`.

```hcl
step "my-release-step" {
  use "release" {
    prune        = true
    prune_retain = 4
  }
}
```

##### deployment_ref

0 or unset will use the latest deployment for a release. To specify a Deployment
for release, this accepts Deployment sequence numbers.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### prune

If true, will prune old releases beyond the `prune_retain` limit when a new release is created.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### prune_retain

The total number of deployments to retain when pruning on a release. This will
only be valid if `prune_retain_override` is set to true.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

##### prune_retain_override

If true, will respect the `prune_retain` value when pruning during a release.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `up`

This built-in Step will run an Up operation job, similar to running `waypoint up`.

```hcl
step "my-up-step" {
  use "up" {
    prune = true
  }
}
```

##### prune

If true, will prune old releases beyond the `prune_retain` limit when a new release is created.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### prune_retain

The total number of deployments to retain when pruning on a release. This will
only be valid if `prune_retain_override` is set to true.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

##### prune_retain_override

If true, will respect the `prune_retain` value when pruning during a release.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `exec`

```hcl
step "my-exec-step" {
  use "exec" {
    command = "echo"
    args    = ["hello world!"]
  }
}
```

##### command

The command to execute on the container for this Step.

- Type: **string**
- **Required**

##### args

The arguments to pass through to the command when running on the container for this Step.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

### `pipeline`

This built-in Step lets you reference another pipeline within a Step to be run.

```hcl
step "my-pipeline-step" {
  use "pipeline" {
    project = "my-pipeline-project"
    name    = "other-pipeline"
  }
}
```

##### project

The project that the pipeline reference exists in. **Note that currently
Waypoint does not support running across Project pipelines**.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### name

The pipeline name that the pipeline reference is for.

- Type: **string**
- **Required**

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/pipelines/config.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines Configuration
description: |-
  The page for detailing Waypoint pipeline configurations
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Pipeline Configurations

This section details some of the various built-in Step plugins and their
configuration options.

## Step Configurations

Steps have a few basic configuration options that are defined below.

##### name

```hcl
// this step has a label name "my-step-name"
step "my-step-name" {
  use "build" {}
}
```

- Stanza label
- Type: **string**
- **Required**

##### depends_on

A step can depend on many other steps within a pipeline. By default, a step will
always depend on the previously defined step unless `depends_on` is set. No
step cycles are allowed. This means you cannot have steps that depend on other
steps that form a cyclic dependency.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  depends_on = ["step-1", "step-3", "root"]

  use "deploy" {}
}
```

- Type: **Array of strings**
- **Optional**

##### image_url

Currently used only for the `exec` step, this is the container image URL that will be used
to spawn the `exec` pipeline step.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  image_url = "https://example.com:5000/waypoint-odr:latest"

  use "exec" {}
}
```

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### workspace

If set, will override the workspace in which this step runs.

```hcl
step "my-step-name" {
  workspace = "production"

  use "deploy" {}
}
```

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### use

If used in a step, this will denote which "built-in" Step plugin to use.

```hcl
// this step will "use" the build plugin
step "my-step-name" {
  use "build" {}
}
```

- Type: **stanza**

##### pipeline

Steps can also contain embedded pipelines.

Note that it isn't valid to have both a "use" and a "pipeline "stanza inside a Step.

```hcl
// this step has an embedded pipeline
step "my-step-name" {
  pipeline "another-pipeline" {
    step "more" { ... }
  }
}
```

## Built-In Step Config Options

Currently, Pipeline Steps have "built-in" plugins that are backed by the existing
Waypoint job system. See below for examples of each of these built-in Steps and their
parameters.

### `build`

This built-in Step will run a Build operation job, similar to running `waypoint build`.

```hcl
step "my-build-step" {
  use "build" {
    disable_push = false
  }
}
```

##### disable_push

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `deploy`

This built-in Step will run a Deploy operation job, similar to running `waypoint deploy`.

```hcl
step "my-deploy-step" {
  use "deploy" {}
}
```

### `release`

This built-in Step will run a Release operation job, similar to running `waypoint release`.

```hcl
step "my-release-step" {
  use "release" {
    prune        = true
    prune_retain = 4
  }
}
```

##### deployment_ref

0 or unset will use the latest deployment for a release. To specify a Deployment
for release, this accepts Deployment sequence numbers.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### prune

If true, will prune old releases beyond the `prune_retain` limit when a new release is created.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### prune_retain

The total number of deployments to retain when pruning on a release. This will
only be valid if `prune_retain_override` is set to true.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

##### prune_retain_override

If true, will respect the `prune_retain` value when pruning during a release.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `up`

This built-in Step will run an Up operation job, similar to running `waypoint up`.

```hcl
step "my-up-step" {
  use "up" {
    prune = true
  }
}
```

##### prune

If true, will prune old releases beyond the `prune_retain` limit when a new release is created.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### prune_retain

The total number of deployments to retain when pruning on a release. This will
only be valid if `prune_retain_override` is set to true.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

##### prune_retain_override

If true, will respect the `prune_retain` value when pruning during a release.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

### `exec`

```hcl
step "my-exec-step" {
  use "exec" {
    command = "echo"
    args    = ["hello world!"]
  }
}
```

##### command

The command to execute on the container for this Step.

- Type: **string**
- **Required**

##### args

The arguments to pass through to the command when running on the container for this Step.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

### `pipeline`

This built-in Step lets you reference another pipeline within a Step to be run.

```hcl
step "my-pipeline-step" {
  use "pipeline" {
    project = "my-pipeline-project"
    name    = "other-pipeline"
  }
}
```

##### project

The project that the pipeline reference exists in. **Note that currently
Waypoint does not support running across Project pipelines**.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### name

The pipeline name that the pipeline reference is for.

- Type: **string**
- **Required**
