website/content/docs/pipelines/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines
description: |-
  The overview of Waypoint Pipelines.
---

# Waypoint Custom Pipelines

~> **NOTE**: Custom Pipelines is currently a **Tech Preview** feature of Waypoint.
We invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let us know about your experience on our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51), as well as feature requests, enhancements, or bugs
via [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
hearing what you think and how Waypoint can help make your experience
delivering your applications even better!

Before the introduction of Pipelines, Waypoint had a relatively fixed
built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI command.
An "Up" is a special operation that encapsulates the Build, Deploy, and
Release workflow for an application. This
simple yet powerful pipeline is great for most early users of Waypoint to continuously build
and deploy an application to production.

As our product grew, so did our users. Users wished for more fine-tuned control and customization over how Waypoint deploys applications. Teams need to run tests after a build, security scan artifacts prior to a deploy, and so on. Custom Pipelines enable teams to solve increasingly complex challenges.
In the Tech Preview, users can define pipelines to run in the order they require to deliver their
application. Additionally, users can run scripts as a pipeline execution step via the "Exec" plugin, which further enables highly customized operations.

Pipelines allow users to tell Waypoint what order these operations should
run in and configure any operation options necessary; such as disabling an
artifact push in the `build` step, or pruning old deployments
on a release in the `release` step.

Please visit the [Pipeline Configuration Docs](/waypoint/docs/pipelines/config)
for more information about the configuration of a Pipeline for a
Waypoint project.

### Pipeline Runs

Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint keeps track of the steps, jobs, and run results.
As you can see from the [waypoint pipeline run console example output](/waypoint/docs/pipelines#examples),
Waypoint identifies how many steps are in the pipeline and how many are successfully
completed. Users can then further deep dive into specific pipeline runs to view
more information.

`waypoint pipeline list` shows the current steps, last run start and complete
times, last run state, and total runs for every pipeline in the project.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline list

» Waypoint Pipelines for my-project
              ID             | NAME |    OWNER     | CURRENT STEPS | LAST RUN STARTED | LAST RUN COMPLETED |  STATE  | TOTAL RUNS
-----------------------------+------+--------------+---------------+------------------+--------------------+---------+-------------
  01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ | test | example-java |             2 | 5 days ago       | 5 days ago         | success |          5
```

`waypoint pipeline inspect` can look up a specific pipeline by ID (default) or
name, as well as an additional option to view a specific run of that pipeline.
Pipeline run information will include run state, steps, timestamps, and associated job IDs.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test


» Pipeline Configuration
                  ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
                Name: test
               Owner: example-java
      Root Step Name: build
         Total Steps: 2
          Total Runs: 9
    Last Run Started: 1 minute ago
  Last Run Completed: a long while ago
     Last Run Status: RUNNING
```

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test -run=3

» Pipeline Configuration
              ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
            Name: test
           Owner: example-java
  Root Step Name: build
     Total Steps: 2
    Run Sequence: 3
     Jobs Queued: [id:"01GBBBQJZHZVMKRAQSXGYXKEZY" id:"01GBBBQJZH05YD6MN91X30G7HF"]
     Run Started: 5 days ago
   Run Completed: 5 days ago
           State: ERROR
```

All endpoints and CLI commands related to the running of pipelines: tasks, jobs,
deployments, releases, and builds will reflect pipeline and pipeline run
information. See `waypoint artifact list-builds` below for an example:

```
❯ waypoint artifact list-builds

» example-java
    | ID | WORKSPACE | BUILDER |   STARTED   |  COMPLETED  |        PIPELINE
----+----+-----------+---------+-------------+-------------+----------------------------
  ✔ | 18 | default   | pack    | 3 hours ago | 3 hours ago | test[run: 2][step: build]
  ✔ | 17 | default   | pack    | 4 hours ago | 4 hours ago | test[run: 1][step: build]
```

### Exec Step Plugin

Pipelines come with a built-in step plugin named `exec`. This plugin allows a
step to execute bash within the Pipeline run. This could be used to run tests
after a build or deploy, or use tools packaged into the exec step image to
security scan the built artifact.

```hcl
pipeline "example" {
  step "run-some-code" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"

    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Embedded Pipelines in Steps

You can optionally define a full pipeline within a Pipeline Step. This pattern
is useful if you have a series of steps that make sense to be grouped together,
such as doing a deploy and release within a specific workspace.

```hcl
pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "deploy" {
    pipeline "deploy" {
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {
        }
      }
      step "release" {
        use "release" {
          prune = true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

~> **NOTE**: Currently, this Tech Preview only allows for 1 level of nesting when defining an embedded pipeline. However, Pipelines can also be used as a reference within a step.

### Reference Pipelines As Steps

You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `pipeline` step:

```hcl
project = "my-pipeline-project"

pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    #  "pipeline" is a special "built-in" step that references another pipeline
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

Pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.
When you use the pipeline run CLI, you can run a pipeline in a different workspace
with the `-workspace` flag.

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run -workspace=dev builder
```

#### Workspace Scoped Steps

You can override the environment that a Pipeline step runs in by specifying a
`workspace` param for any step in your Pipeline definition. For example,
this pipeline's "build-prod" step will run in the production ("prod") workspace.

Notice that the "build" stanza in the "app" definition contains two "use" plugin definitions,
one of which is _workspace scoped_. That means when the "build-prod" step runs, it will
use the "prod" workspace scoped build plugin pack rather than the default "docker" plugin.

```hcl
// waypoint.hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build-dev" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "build-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-dev" {
    use "deploy" {
      release = false
    }
  }
}

// waypoint.hcl
app "tetris" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "pack" {}
    }
  }
  deploy {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "kubernetes" {}
    }
  }
}
```

You can also use this to set a workspace for an embedded pipeline:

```hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-test" {
    workspace = "test"
    pipeline "deploy-test-env" {
      step "build" {
        // test env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
  step "deploy-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    pipeline "deploy-prod-env" {
      step "build" {
        // prod env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

Below is an example that redefines the Up operation as a pipeline with three
steps for a build, deploy, and release workflow. This example could be used as a starting
point for more complicated pipelines.

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "my-release" {
    use "release" {}
  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

The `exec` step accepts "command" and "arg" parameters for executing commands.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
}
```

To run the example pipeline named "full-up" defined in this example, it is as
simple as `waypoint pipeline run full-up`:

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline run full-up

» Running pipeline "full-up" for application "tetris"
✓ Pipeline "full-up" has started running. Attempting to read job stream sequentially in order
✓ 3 steps detected, run sequence 2

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline


» Executing Step "build"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW2M6TTZ4C0JKT0AXRD)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running build v1
✓ Building Docker image with kaniko...
✓ Testing registry and uploading entrypoint layer
✓ Executing kaniko...
 │ INFO[0001] Retrieving image manifest nginx:stable
 │ INFO[0001] Returning cached image manifest
 │ INFO[0001] Executing 0 build triggers
 │ INFO[0001] Unpacking rootfs as cmd COPY ./public/ /var/www requires it.
 │ INFO[0004] COPY ./public/ /var/www
 │ INFO[0004] Taking snapshot of files...
 │ INFO[0004] COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
 │ INFO[0004] Taking snapshot of files...
 │ INFO[0004] Pushing image to localhost:32953/tetris:latest
 │ INFO[0005] Pushed image to 1 destinations
✓ Image pushed to 'my-container-registry/tetris:latest'
✓ Running push build v1

» Executing Step "deploy"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW29Q1M7QNQ0F1JX2CS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running deploy v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://10.96.0.1:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating deployment...
✓ Expected "http" port "3000" for app "tetris-v1"
✓ Deployment successfully rolled out!
✓ Horizontal Pod Autoscaler has been created

» Executing Step "release"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW22N7PQXSF2KGXT1MS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running release v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://my-kubernetes.example.com:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating service...
✓ Service is ready!
✔ Pipeline "full-up" (k8s-tetris) finished! 3/3 steps successfully completed.
```

## Future Roadmap For Pipelines

We plan to continue making improvements to pipelines in the coming months to bring it out of Tech Preview. This includes more support for running batches of operations for a pipeline by improving Waypoint's internal job system, sharing VCS project source code between Steps, giving Pipeline Steps the ability to share input and output variables, approval Steps to "manually" sign off on releases, and more!

Current open feature requests, bug reports, and general issues can be found via
the [core/pipeline](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acore%2Fpipeline)
label on GitHub!

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/pipelines/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines
description: |-
  The overview of Waypoint Pipelines.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Custom Pipelines

~> **NOTE**: Custom Pipelines is currently a **Tech Preview** feature of Waypoint.
We invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let us know about your experience on our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51), as well as feature requests, enhancements, or bugs
via [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
hearing what you think and how Waypoint can help make your experience
delivering your applications even better!

Before the introduction of Pipelines, Waypoint had a relatively fixed
built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI command.
An "Up" is a special operation that encapsulates the Build, Deploy, and
Release workflow for an application. This
simple yet powerful pipeline is great for most early users of Waypoint to continuously build
and deploy an application to production.

As our product grew, so did our users. Users wished for more fine-tuned control and customization over how Waypoint deploys applications. Teams need to run tests after a build, security scan artifacts prior to a deploy, and so on. Custom Pipelines enable teams to solve increasingly complex challenges.
In the Tech Preview, users can define pipelines to run in the order they require to deliver their
application. Additionally, users can run scripts as a pipeline execution step via the "Exec" plugin, which further enables highly customized operations.

Pipelines allow users to tell Waypoint what order these operations should
run in and configure any operation options necessary; such as disabling an
artifact push in the `build` step, or pruning old deployments
on a release in the `release` step.

Please visit the [Pipeline Configuration Docs](/waypoint/docs/pipelines/config)
for more information about the configuration of a Pipeline for a
Waypoint project.

### Pipeline Runs

Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint keeps track of the steps, jobs, and run results.
As you can see from the [waypoint pipeline run console example output](/waypoint/docs/pipelines#examples),
Waypoint identifies how many steps are in the pipeline and how many are successfully
completed. Users can then further deep dive into specific pipeline runs to view
more information.

`waypoint pipeline list` shows the current steps, last run start and complete
times, last run state, and total runs for every pipeline in the project.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline list

» Waypoint Pipelines for my-project
              ID             | NAME |    OWNER     | CURRENT STEPS | LAST RUN STARTED | LAST RUN COMPLETED |  STATE  | TOTAL RUNS
-----------------------------+------+--------------+---------------+------------------+--------------------+---------+-------------
  01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ | test | example-java |             2 | 5 days ago       | 5 days ago         | success |          5
```

`waypoint pipeline inspect` can look up a specific pipeline by ID (default) or
name, as well as an additional option to view a specific run of that pipeline.
Pipeline run information will include run state, steps, timestamps, and associated job IDs.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test


» Pipeline Configuration
                  ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
                Name: test
               Owner: example-java
      Root Step Name: build
         Total Steps: 2
          Total Runs: 9
    Last Run Started: 1 minute ago
  Last Run Completed: a long while ago
     Last Run Status: RUNNING
```

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test -run=3

» Pipeline Configuration
              ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
            Name: test
           Owner: example-java
  Root Step Name: build
     Total Steps: 2
    Run Sequence: 3
     Jobs Queued: [id:"01GBBBQJZHZVMKRAQSXGYXKEZY" id:"01GBBBQJZH05YD6MN91X30G7HF"]
     Run Started: 5 days ago
   Run Completed: 5 days ago
           State: ERROR
```

All endpoints and CLI commands related to the running of pipelines: tasks, jobs,
deployments, releases, and builds will reflect pipeline and pipeline run
information. See `waypoint artifact list-builds` below for an example:

```
❯ waypoint artifact list-builds

» example-java
    | ID | WORKSPACE | BUILDER |   STARTED   |  COMPLETED  |        PIPELINE
----+----+-----------+---------+-------------+-------------+----------------------------
  ✔ | 18 | default   | pack    | 3 hours ago | 3 hours ago | test[run: 2][step: build]
  ✔ | 17 | default   | pack    | 4 hours ago | 4 hours ago | test[run: 1][step: build]
```

### Exec Step Plugin

Pipelines come with a built-in step plugin named `exec`. This plugin allows a
step to execute bash within the Pipeline run. This could be used to run tests
after a build or deploy, or use tools packaged into the exec step image to
security scan the built artifact.

```hcl
pipeline "example" {
  step "run-some-code" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"

    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Embedded Pipelines in Steps

You can optionally define a full pipeline within a Pipeline Step. This pattern
is useful if you have a series of steps that make sense to be grouped together,
such as doing a deploy and release within a specific workspace.

```hcl
pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "deploy" {
    pipeline "deploy" {
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {
        }
      }
      step "release" {
        use "release" {
          prune = true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

~> **NOTE**: Currently, this Tech Preview only allows for 1 level of nesting when defining an embedded pipeline. However, Pipelines can also be used as a reference within a step.

### Reference Pipelines As Steps

You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `pipeline` step:

```hcl
project = "my-pipeline-project"

pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    #  "pipeline" is a special "built-in" step that references another pipeline
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

Pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.
When you use the pipeline run CLI, you can run a pipeline in a different workspace
with the `-workspace` flag.

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run -workspace=dev builder
```

#### Workspace Scoped Steps

You can override the environment that a Pipeline step runs in by specifying a
`workspace` param for any step in your Pipeline definition. For example,
this pipeline's "build-prod" step will run in the production ("prod") workspace.

Notice that the "build" stanza in the "app" definition contains two "use" plugin definitions,
one of which is _workspace scoped_. That means when the "build-prod" step runs, it will
use the "prod" workspace scoped build plugin pack rather than the default "docker" plugin.

```hcl
// waypoint.hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build-dev" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "build-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-dev" {
    use "deploy" {
      release = false
    }
  }
}

// waypoint.hcl
app "tetris" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "pack" {}
    }
  }
  deploy {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "kubernetes" {}
    }
  }
}
```

You can also use this to set a workspace for an embedded pipeline:

```hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-test" {
    workspace = "test"
    pipeline "deploy-test-env" {
      step "build" {
        // test env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
  step "deploy-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    pipeline "deploy-prod-env" {
      step "build" {
        // prod env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

Below is an example that redefines the Up operation as a pipeline with three
steps for a build, deploy, and release workflow. This example could be used as a starting
point for more complicated pipelines.

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "my-release" {
    use "release" {}
  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

The `exec` step accepts "command" and "arg" parameters for executing commands.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
}
```

To run the example pipeline named "full-up" defined in this example, it is as
simple as `waypoint pipeline run full-up`:

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline run full-up

» Running pipeline "full-up" for application "tetris"
✓ Pipeline "full-up" has started running. Attempting to read job stream sequentially in order
✓ 3 steps detected, run sequence 2

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline


» Executing Step "build"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW2M6TTZ4C0JKT0AXRD)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running build v1
✓ Building Docker image with kaniko...
✓ Testing registry and uploading entrypoint layer
✓ Executing kaniko...
 │ INFO[0001] Retrieving image manifest nginx:stable
 │ INFO[0001] Returning cached image manifest
 │ INFO[0001] Executing 0 build triggers
 │ INFO[0001] Unpacking rootfs as cmd COPY ./public/ /var/www requires it.
 │ INFO[0004] COPY ./public/ /var/www
 │ INFO[0004] Taking snapshot of files...
 │ INFO[0004] COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
 │ INFO[0004] Taking snapshot of files...
 │ INFO[0004] Pushing image to localhost:32953/tetris:latest
 │ INFO[0005] Pushed image to 1 destinations
✓ Image pushed to 'my-container-registry/tetris:latest'
✓ Running push build v1

» Executing Step "deploy"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW29Q1M7QNQ0F1JX2CS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running deploy v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://10.96.0.1:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating deployment...
✓ Expected "http" port "3000" for app "tetris-v1"
✓ Deployment successfully rolled out!
✓ Horizontal Pod Autoscaler has been created

» Executing Step "release"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW22N7PQXSF2KGXT1MS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running release v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://my-kubernetes.example.com:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating service...
✓ Service is ready!
✔ Pipeline "full-up" (k8s-tetris) finished! 3/3 steps successfully completed.
```

## Future Roadmap For Pipelines

We plan to continue making improvements to pipelines in the coming months to bring it out of Tech Preview. This includes more support for running batches of operations for a pipeline by improving Waypoint's internal job system, sharing VCS project source code between Steps, giving Pipeline Steps the ability to share input and output variables, approval Steps to "manually" sign off on releases, and more!

Current open feature requests, bug reports, and general issues can be found via
the [core/pipeline](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acore%2Fpipeline)
label on GitHub!
