website/content/docs/resources/roadmap.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Roadmap
description: |-
  This page will outline some of the ideas we have for future versions of Waypoint. This is not an exhaustive list nor is it a promise that these features will be built, but it gives a glimpse into the vision we have for this project.
---

# Waypoint Roadmap

Waypoint is a new project and we have a lot we want to achieve with it.
This page will outline some of the ideas we have for future versions of Waypoint.
This is not an exhaustive list nor is it a promise that these features will
be built, but it gives a glimpse into the vision we have for this project.

For a finer-grained view into our roadmap and what is being worked on for
a release, please refer to the [GitHub Issue Tracker](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues).
This is a more manual approach to reading our roadmap and includes small details
such as bug fixes, but is much more accurate to what we're working on.

### Custom Pipelines

Waypoint has always had `build`, `deploy`, and `release` lifecycle events, but
to handle more complex deployments, Waypoint needed the ability to add custom steps.
We recently released a [Tech Preview of custom pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines),
introducing the ability to script custom steps, such as running tests after a
build or security scanning artifacts prior to a deploy. As we work to bring
custom pipelines out of Tech Preview, we'll be introducing more support for
steps consuming and producing data for other steps in a pipeline, improvements
around how pipelines access VCS data, customizable step plugins, and introducing
pipelines to the UI.

### App Promotion

Waypoint has the [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) feature for
isolating different environments. We plan to build on this feature,
and custom pipelines, to enable workspaces that may target different
infrastructure environments (such as a dev vs. production cluster), and we
want to build features so applications can be easily "promoted" from
one stage to another without rebuilding artifacts in each workspace.

### Infrastructure Provisioning

We plan to incorporate a tighter integration with [Terraform](/terraform)
to enable folks to provision infrastructure right from their waypoint.hcl file.
Waypoint will be able to trigger Terraform to provision deployment infrastructure,
and connect that infrastructure to the Waypoint server.

### Service Brokering (Databases, Queues, etc.)

We plan on having some mechanism by which applications can request services
such as databases, queues, and so on. These services must be satisfied by
some external system such as Amazon RDS. Waypoint will be able to request
the service, connect the configuration, and destroy it when its no longer
in use.

A design goal of Waypoint is explicitly to _not do automated infrastructure
management_, so this feature will still put the burden of managing these
services onto the user. However, Waypoint can help orchestrate initializing
them and configuring applications.

We will likely integrate with [Terraform](/terraform) in some way.

### Deployment Templates

Waypoint currently associates a [waypoint.hcl](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl)
configuration with a single project. In the future, we will allow parameterized
configurations to be shared as a template library with your installation.
When users create a new project, they can select from a list of common
templates.

### Access Control

The initial Waypoint release has a minimal token system that is used as a
blanket authorization mechanism. In the future we will add a more fine-grained
access control mechanism to Waypoint.

One exception to this today are Entrypoint tokens. The Entrypoint uses
a special fine-grained token that allows it to only access entrypoint-related
functionality for the specific deployment it represents. This was built as
a special security mechanism however and isn't generally available to limit
access for other tokens.

### Exec Improvements

We're really excited about [`waypoint exec`](/waypoint/docs/exec) but there
are a lot of improvements we want to make here:

- **New deployment targeting.** - We want exec to be able to spin up
  new exec-focused deployments so that your exec sessions aren't shared with
  deployments that might be receiving user traffic. Additionally, this will
  let us harden security by disabling exec in most deployments.

- **Better security, specifically around disabling.** - We want exec to
  be safe. One mechanism towards that is having exec be disabled
  as often as possible but can still easily be used when needed. We think having exec
  disabled by default paired with the above deployment targeting feature makes
  this a reality.

- **Native exec.** - If a platform provides a native `exec` feature, we
  want to provide that as an option to users. This is always likely to not
  be a default because we want the consistent option as the default.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/resources/roadmap.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Roadmap
description: |-
  This page will outline some of the ideas we have for future versions of Waypoint. This is not an exhaustive list nor is it a promise that these features will be built, but it gives a glimpse into the vision we have for this project.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Roadmap

Waypoint is a new project and we have a lot we want to achieve with it.
This page will outline some of the ideas we have for future versions of Waypoint.
This is not an exhaustive list nor is it a promise that these features will
be built, but it gives a glimpse into the vision we have for this project.

For a finer-grained view into our roadmap and what is being worked on for
a release, please refer to the [GitHub Issue Tracker](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues).
This is a more manual approach to reading our roadmap and includes small details
such as bug fixes, but is much more accurate to what we're working on.

### Custom Pipelines

Waypoint has always had `build`, `deploy`, and `release` lifecycle events, but
to handle more complex deployments, Waypoint needed the ability to add custom steps.
We recently released a [Tech Preview of custom pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines),
introducing the ability to script custom steps, such as running tests after a
build or security scanning artifacts prior to a deploy. As we work to bring
custom pipelines out of Tech Preview, we'll be introducing more support for
steps consuming and producing data for other steps in a pipeline, improvements
around how pipelines access VCS data, customizable step plugins, and introducing
pipelines to the UI.

### App Promotion

Waypoint has the [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) feature for
isolating different environments. We plan to build on this feature,
and custom pipelines, to enable workspaces that may target different
infrastructure environments (such as a dev vs. production cluster), and we
want to build features so applications can be easily "promoted" from
one stage to another without rebuilding artifacts in each workspace.

### Infrastructure Provisioning

We plan to incorporate a tighter integration with [Terraform](/terraform)
to enable folks to provision infrastructure right from their waypoint.hcl file.
Waypoint will be able to trigger Terraform to provision deployment infrastructure,
and connect that infrastructure to the Waypoint server.

### Service Brokering (Databases, Queues, etc.)

We plan on having some mechanism by which applications can request services
such as databases, queues, and so on. These services must be satisfied by
some external system such as Amazon RDS. Waypoint will be able to request
the service, connect the configuration, and destroy it when its no longer
in use.

A design goal of Waypoint is explicitly to _not do automated infrastructure
management_, so this feature will still put the burden of managing these
services onto the user. However, Waypoint can help orchestrate initializing
them and configuring applications.

We will likely integrate with [Terraform](/terraform) in some way.

### Deployment Templates

Waypoint currently associates a [waypoint.hcl](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl)
configuration with a single project. In the future, we will allow parameterized
configurations to be shared as a template library with your installation.
When users create a new project, they can select from a list of common
templates.

### Access Control

The initial Waypoint release has a minimal token system that is used as a
blanket authorization mechanism. In the future we will add a more fine-grained
access control mechanism to Waypoint.

One exception to this today are Entrypoint tokens. The Entrypoint uses
a special fine-grained token that allows it to only access entrypoint-related
functionality for the specific deployment it represents. This was built as
a special security mechanism however and isn't generally available to limit
access for other tokens.

### Exec Improvements

We're really excited about [`waypoint exec`](/waypoint/docs/exec) but there
are a lot of improvements we want to make here:

- **New deployment targeting.** - We want exec to be able to spin up
  new exec-focused deployments so that your exec sessions aren't shared with
  deployments that might be receiving user traffic. Additionally, this will
  let us harden security by disabling exec in most deployments.

- **Better security, specifically around disabling.** - We want exec to
  be safe. One mechanism towards that is having exec be disabled
  as often as possible but can still easily be used when needed. We think having exec
  disabled by default paired with the above deployment targeting feature makes
  this a reality.

- **Native exec.** - If a platform provides a native `exec` feature, we
  want to provide that as an option to users. This is always likely to not
  be a default because we want the consistent option as the default.
