website/content/docs/intro/vs/helm.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Waypoint vs. Helm
description: |-
  Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. Waypoint is not a package manager. Waypoint is a tool for describing how to build, deploy, and release applications and providing a consistent workflow on top of that: `waypoint up`.
---

# Waypoint vs. Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. Helm makes it easier to package,
version, install, and upgrade a set of YAML files comprising the necessary
resources within Kubernetes to run an application. Helm is a popular system
used by Kubernetes users to deploy their applications.

Waypoint is not a package manager. Waypoint is a tool for describing
how to build, deploy, and release applications and providing a consistent
workflow on top of that: `waypoint up`.

Waypoint can use Helm to satisfy the "deploy" step. Helm also sometimes
satisfies the "release" step incidentally since you can setup new Kubernetes
resources for traffic management, but Helm doesn't have a built-in concept
of released vs unreleased applications.

Helm does not provide a "build" step. You are expected to build your
container images and provide them to Helm. Waypoint represents a build
step since the goal of Waypoint is to get you from source to production.
If you use Helm with Waypoint, Waypoint can orchestrate building an
image and providing that image name to Helm.

Helm does not provide higher level features such as logs, exec, configuration,
etc. Helm does make it easy to access the logs of software it deploys by
relying on Kubernetes. Waypoint provides a consistent experience for logs
across all platforms.

Helm is Kubernetes-specific. Waypoint is platform-agnostic.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/intro/vs/helm.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Waypoint vs. Helm
description: |-
  Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. Waypoint is not a package manager. Waypoint is a tool for describing how to build, deploy, and release applications and providing a consistent workflow on top of that: `waypoint up`.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint vs. Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. Helm makes it easier to package,
version, install, and upgrade a set of YAML files comprising the necessary
resources within Kubernetes to run an application. Helm is a popular system
used by Kubernetes users to deploy their applications.

Waypoint is not a package manager. Waypoint is a tool for describing
how to build, deploy, and release applications and providing a consistent
workflow on top of that: `waypoint up`.

Waypoint can use Helm to satisfy the "deploy" step. Helm also sometimes
satisfies the "release" step incidentally since you can setup new Kubernetes
resources for traffic management, but Helm doesn't have a built-in concept
of released vs unreleased applications.

Helm does not provide a "build" step. You are expected to build your
container images and provide them to Helm. Waypoint represents a build
step since the goal of Waypoint is to get you from source to production.
If you use Helm with Waypoint, Waypoint can orchestrate building an
image and providing that image name to Helm.

Helm does not provide higher level features such as logs, exec, configuration,
etc. Helm does make it easy to access the logs of software it deploys by
relying on Kubernetes. Waypoint provides a consistent experience for logs
across all platforms.

Helm is Kubernetes-specific. Waypoint is platform-agnostic.
