website/content/docs/intro/vs/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Waypoint vs. Other Software
description: |-
  It can be difficult to understand how different software compare to each other. Is one a replacement for the other? Are they complementary? etc. In this section, we compare Waypoint to other software.
---

# Waypoint vs. Other Software

It can be difficult to understand how different software compare to each other.
Is one a replacement for the other? Are they complementary? etc. In this
section, we compare Waypoint to other software.

We recommend also reading ["What is Waypoint?"](/waypoint/docs/intro#what-is-waypoint)
and ["Why Waypoint?"](/waypoint/docs/intro#why-waypoint). These both will provide
a better understanding of the problems that Waypoint is trying to solve.

Use the navigation to the left to read the comparison of Waypoint to specific systems.

~> These comparisons _are not_ meant to convince you to use Waypoint, and
_are not_ meant to be negative towards other software. Our goal is only to
provide a better understanding of how software does or does not overlap with
Waypoint, and where Waypoint does things differently. If you believe any of the
stated facts are incorrect, please open a GitHub Issue and we will resolve the inconsistency.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/intro/vs/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Waypoint vs. Other Software
description: |-
  It can be difficult to understand how different software compare to each other. Is one a replacement for the other? Are they complementary? etc. In this section, we compare Waypoint to other software.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint vs. Other Software

It can be difficult to understand how different software compare to each other.
Is one a replacement for the other? Are they complementary? etc. In this
section, we compare Waypoint to other software.

We recommend also reading ["What is Waypoint?"](/waypoint/docs/intro#what-is-waypoint)
and ["Why Waypoint?"](/waypoint/docs/intro#why-waypoint). These both will provide
a better understanding of the problems that Waypoint is trying to solve.

Use the navigation to the left to read the comparison of Waypoint to specific systems.

~> These comparisons _are not_ meant to convince you to use Waypoint, and
_are not_ meant to be negative towards other software. Our goal is only to
provide a better understanding of how software does or does not overlap with
Waypoint, and where Waypoint does things differently. If you believe any of the
stated facts are incorrect, please open a GitHub Issue and we will resolve the inconsistency.
