website/content/docs/getting-started/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Getting Started with Waypoint
description: |-
  Install and run Waypoint with this five minute quick start tutorial.
---

# Getting Started with Waypoint

It only takes a few minutes to get started with Waypoint on your local
development environment. This quick start example uses Docker, either on Linux
or with [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) for
Windows and macOS. This will introduce you to the basics of Waypoint, even
if your target environment is not Docker.

Afterwards, go in-depth with [tutorials](/waypoint/tutorials/) for AWS, Azure, GCP, Kubernetes, and
Nomad. For detailed
Kubernetes-focused documentation, see the
[dedicated Kubernetes section](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/install).

-> **Note**: We also have Waypoint Getting Started tutorials for other platforms.
Check out the Getting Started tutorials for your favorite platform.

- [Getting Started with Nomad](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-nomad)
- [Getting Started with Kubernetes](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes)
- [Getting Started with Docker](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-docker)

## Installing Waypoint

[Download](/waypoint/downloads) the Waypoint binary and install it to your system. The
easiest way to install it is to use our official signed packages for Homebrew,
`apt`, `yum`, and other package managers.

## Installing the Server

Start the Docker Desktop application.

Install the Waypoint server to Docker with the `install` command. The
`-accept-tos` flag is required to use the `waypoint.run` URL publishing service.

```shell-session
$ waypoint install -platform=docker -accept-tos
```

When it completes, you'll see this message.

```plaintext
✓ Server container started
Waypoint server successfully installed and configured!

The CLI has been configured to connect to the server automatically. This
connection information is saved in the CLI context named "install-1601411904".
Use the "waypoint context" CLI to manage CLI contexts.

The server has been configured to advertise the following address for
entrypoint communications. This must be a reachable address for all your
deployments. If this is incorrect, manually set it using the CLI command
"waypoint server config-set".

Advertise Address: waypoint-server:9701
HTTP UI Address: localhost:9702
```

## Initializing Waypoint

Clone the git repository with Waypoint application examples, or [download the
code](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples) directly from GitHub.

```shell-session
$ git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git
```

Navigate to the `docker/nodejs` directory.

```shell-session
$ cd waypoint-examples/docker/nodejs
```

All the code you need is provided in this directory, including a `waypoint.hcl`
configuration file that will deploy the application to Docker.

Run `init` to set up the project.

```shell-session
$ waypoint init
```

You'll see this output.

```plaintext
✓ Configuration file appears valid
✓ Local mode initialized successfully
✓ Project "example-nodejs" and all apps are registered with the server.
✓ Plugins loaded and configured successfully
✓ Authentication requirements appear satisfied.

Project initialized!

You may now call 'waypoint up' to deploy your project or
commands such as 'waypoint build' to perform steps individually.
```

## Deploying

Now, run `waypoint up` to build, deploy, and release the application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint up
```

It may take a minute or two and then you'll see this output.

```plaintext
» Building...
✓ Creating pack client
✓ Building image
✓ Injecting entrypoint binary to image

Generated new Docker image: example-nodejs:latest

» Deploying...
✓ Setting up waypoint network
✓ Starting container
⠹ App deployed as container: example-nodejs-01EMM4TEN9SCXXE900F4EFQ9NR

» Releasing...

The deploy was successful! A Waypoint deployment URL is shown below. This
can be used internally to check your deployment and is not meant for external
traffic. You can manage this hostname using "waypoint hostname."

           URL: https://instantly-worthy-shrew.alpha.waypoint.run
Deployment URL: https://instantly-worthy-shrew--v1.waypoint.run
```

Visit either URL shown in the output. You will see a
NodeJS application running on your local Docker Desktop instance.

![Web application](/img/getting-started/web-app.png)

## Changing

Change any part of the file at `docker/nodejs/views/pages/index.ejs` such as
the `<h1>` tag at about line 18. Run `up` again to deploy a new version of the
application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint up
```

You'll see a new URL that you can visit to view the latest version of the
application.

## Debugging

Waypoint includes several sub-commands to help you monitor and debug your application.

Run `logs` to view Waypoint's logs. This may not include all of your
application-specific logs, but will display Waypoint's logs.

```shell-session
waypoint logs
```

The `exec` command connects you to a running instance of your application where
you can examine the process list, run application-specific database upgrade
commands, or do other debugging.

```shell-session
waypoint exec bash
# ps aux
```

## Viewing the Web UI

Waypoint includes a web interface for viewing logs, deployments, builds, and
other details. Launch it with the `ui` command.

```shell-session
waypoint ui -authenticate
```

![Web User Interface](/img/getting-started/admin-ui.png)

## Destroy

When you are done, run `destroy` to remove the application from Docker.
Notice that the `destroy` command requires confirmation to run.

```shell-session
$ waypoint destroy -auto-approve
```

## Next Steps

You have now used Waypoint to build, deploy, and release a NodeJS application to Docker.
Waypoint removed the overhead of managing different technologies to build, deploy, and release applications.

Check out the other in-depth tutorials for AWS, Azure, GCP, Kubernetes, and
Nomad.

- [Azure](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-azure)
- [AWS](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-aws)
- [GCP](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-google-cloud)
- [Getting Started with Nomad](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-nomad)
- [Getting Started with Kubernetes](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes)
- [Getting Started with Docker](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-docker)

For detailed Kubernetes-focused documentation, see the
[dedicated Kubernetes section](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/install).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/getting-started/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Getting Started with Waypoint
description: |-
  Install and run Waypoint with this five minute quick start tutorial.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Getting Started with Waypoint

It only takes a few minutes to get started with Waypoint on your local
development environment. This quick start example uses Docker, either on Linux
or with [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) for
Windows and macOS. This will introduce you to the basics of Waypoint, even
if your target environment is not Docker.

Afterwards, go in-depth with [tutorials](/waypoint/tutorials/) for AWS, Azure, GCP, Kubernetes, and
Nomad. For detailed
Kubernetes-focused documentation, see the
[dedicated Kubernetes section](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/install).

-> **Note**: We also have Waypoint Getting Started tutorials for other platforms.
Check out the Getting Started tutorials for your favorite platform.

- [Getting Started with Nomad](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-nomad)
- [Getting Started with Kubernetes](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes)
- [Getting Started with Docker](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-docker)

## Installing Waypoint

[Download](/waypoint/downloads) the Waypoint binary and install it to your system. The
easiest way to install it is to use our official signed packages for Homebrew,
`apt`, `yum`, and other package managers.

## Installing the Server

Start the Docker Desktop application.

Install the Waypoint server to Docker with the `install` command. The
`-accept-tos` flag is required to use the `waypoint.run` URL publishing service.

```shell-session
$ waypoint install -platform=docker -accept-tos
```

When it completes, you'll see this message.

```plaintext
✓ Server container started
Waypoint server successfully installed and configured!

The CLI has been configured to connect to the server automatically. This
connection information is saved in the CLI context named "install-1601411904".
Use the "waypoint context" CLI to manage CLI contexts.

The server has been configured to advertise the following address for
entrypoint communications. This must be a reachable address for all your
deployments. If this is incorrect, manually set it using the CLI command
"waypoint server config-set".

Advertise Address: waypoint-server:9701
HTTP UI Address: localhost:9702
```

## Initializing Waypoint

Clone the git repository with Waypoint application examples, or [download the
code](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples) directly from GitHub.

```shell-session
$ git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git
```

Navigate to the `docker/nodejs` directory.

```shell-session
$ cd waypoint-examples/docker/nodejs
```

All the code you need is provided in this directory, including a `waypoint.hcl`
configuration file that will deploy the application to Docker.

Run `init` to set up the project.

```shell-session
$ waypoint init
```

You'll see this output.

```plaintext
✓ Configuration file appears valid
✓ Local mode initialized successfully
✓ Project "example-nodejs" and all apps are registered with the server.
✓ Plugins loaded and configured successfully
✓ Authentication requirements appear satisfied.

Project initialized!

You may now call 'waypoint up' to deploy your project or
commands such as 'waypoint build' to perform steps individually.
```

## Deploying

Now, run `waypoint up` to build, deploy, and release the application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint up
```

It may take a minute or two and then you'll see this output.

```plaintext
» Building...
✓ Creating pack client
✓ Building image
✓ Injecting entrypoint binary to image

Generated new Docker image: example-nodejs:latest

» Deploying...
✓ Setting up waypoint network
✓ Starting container
⠹ App deployed as container: example-nodejs-01EMM4TEN9SCXXE900F4EFQ9NR

» Releasing...

The deploy was successful! A Waypoint deployment URL is shown below. This
can be used internally to check your deployment and is not meant for external
traffic. You can manage this hostname using "waypoint hostname."

           URL: https://instantly-worthy-shrew.alpha.waypoint.run
Deployment URL: https://instantly-worthy-shrew--v1.waypoint.run
```

Visit either URL shown in the output. You will see a
NodeJS application running on your local Docker Desktop instance.

![Web application](/img/getting-started/web-app.png)

## Changing

Change any part of the file at `docker/nodejs/views/pages/index.ejs` such as
the `<h1>` tag at about line 18. Run `up` again to deploy a new version of the
application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint up
```

You'll see a new URL that you can visit to view the latest version of the
application.

## Debugging

Waypoint includes several sub-commands to help you monitor and debug your application.

Run `logs` to view Waypoint's logs. This may not include all of your
application-specific logs, but will display Waypoint's logs.

```shell-session
waypoint logs
```

The `exec` command connects you to a running instance of your application where
you can examine the process list, run application-specific database upgrade
commands, or do other debugging.

```shell-session
waypoint exec bash
# ps aux
```

## Viewing the Web UI

Waypoint includes a web interface for viewing logs, deployments, builds, and
other details. Launch it with the `ui` command.

```shell-session
waypoint ui -authenticate
```

![Web User Interface](/img/getting-started/admin-ui.png)

## Destroy

When you are done, run `destroy` to remove the application from Docker.
Notice that the `destroy` command requires confirmation to run.

```shell-session
$ waypoint destroy -auto-approve
```

## Next Steps

You have now used Waypoint to build, deploy, and release a NodeJS application to Docker.
Waypoint removed the overhead of managing different technologies to build, deploy, and release applications.

Check out the other in-depth tutorials for AWS, Azure, GCP, Kubernetes, and
Nomad.

- [Azure](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-azure)
- [AWS](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-aws)
- [GCP](/waypoint/tutorials/deploy-google-cloud)
- [Getting Started with Nomad](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-nomad)
- [Getting Started with Kubernetes](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes)
- [Getting Started with Docker](/waypoint/tutorials/get-started-docker)

For detailed Kubernetes-focused documentation, see the
[dedicated Kubernetes section](/waypoint/docs/platforms/kubernetes/install).
