website/content/docs/runner/adoption.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Adoption Workflow
description: |-
  An overview of the adoption process for Waypoint Static Runners.
---

# Adoption Workflow

To introduce a static runner to the server, it goes through the Adoption Workflow.
This allows the operator the ability to approve static runners before they're sent jobs to
run.

Waypoint static runners can exist in various states depending on how they are
initially installed into a platform. Most will move from `Pending` to
`Adopted` to `Rejected` states during their entire lifecycle.

## Preadopted Static Runners

When creating a new static runner, it is possible to generate the runner token and install
a static runner with the token on its initial installation. These runners are then
able to immediately recieve jobs from the Waypoint server when they start.
They also skip the `Pending` state to directly enter the `Preadopted` state.

Preadopted static runners may be moved into the `Rejected` state like other runners by
issuing the [`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject) command. If a preadopted
static runner is rejected, a new runner token must be created for the runner before it
is allowed to receive jobs again.

## Pending Static Runners

The `Pending` runner state is the default state which newly installed static runners
will be in, as they have yet to receive a runner token from the server. Static runners
in this state can talk to a Waypoint server but will not receive jobs to run.
Static runners will also show up in this state if they are forgotten about by the server with
the [`waypoint runner forget`](/waypoint/commands/runner-forget) command.

When in the `Pending` state, static runners may be moved into the `Adopted` state by
issuing the [`waypoint runner adopt`](/waypoint/commands/runner-adopt) command with the
desired Runner ID.

Runners automatically skip this state if they are in the `Preadopted` state.

## Adopted Static Runners

Static runners adopted with [`waypoint runner adopt`](/waypoint/commands/runner-adopt) will
store a runner token received by the server in their configured state
directory, which is local to the static runner itself. Once a static runner has been
adopted, it may start receiving job assignments from the Waypoint server as usual.

## Rejected Runners

When a user rejects a Waypoint runner with the
[`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject) command, the rejected runner
is no longer able to receive job assignments from the Waypoint server.

Rejected runners will continue to appear in the list of runners that the server
knows about so that subsequent requests by this same runner are ignored.

Rejecting a runner does not invalidate its token. If a rejected runner is
forgotten the previously rejected runner may reconnect to the server as long as
its token is not expired. This runner will be able to accept jobs as if it were
never rejected in the first place.

# Runner Tokens

Runner tokens are special tokens which can only be used by runners to recieve
job assignments from the Waypoint server. These tokens cannot be revoked, only
rejected through the [`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject)
command. By default runner tokens are valid for 30 days and upon expiring they
will need to be recreated with [`waypoint runner token`](/waypoint/commands/runner-token).
Runners must then be restarted with the new token to receive job assignments
again. Token expirations may be altered when generating a runner token with
[`waypoint runner token`](/waypoint/commands/runner-token).

The Waypoint runner will look for the token in two places before requesting a
new token from the Waypoint server. First, the runner will look in its state
directory for a `token` file containing a Waypoint runner token. If a `token`
file doesn't exist then the Waypoint Runner will look in the
`WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` environment variable. If both of these locations do not
contain a token then the Waypoint Runner enters the `Pending` state and an
adoption request is sent to the server for a user to manually adopt. Runners
adopted store the received token within the `token` file in the runner's state
directory.

See [Additional Runners](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual) for more information about
Waypoint Runner installation.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/adoption.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Adoption Workflow
description: |-
  An overview of the adoption process for Waypoint Static Runners.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Adoption Workflow

To introduce a static runner to the server, it goes through the Adoption Workflow.
This allows the operator the ability to approve static runners before they're sent jobs to
run.

Waypoint static runners can exist in various states depending on how they are
initially installed into a platform. Most will move from `Pending` to
`Adopted` to `Rejected` states during their entire lifecycle.

## Preadopted Static Runners

When creating a new static runner, it is possible to generate the runner token and install
a static runner with the token on its initial installation. These runners are then
able to immediately recieve jobs from the Waypoint server when they start.
They also skip the `Pending` state to directly enter the `Preadopted` state.

Preadopted static runners may be moved into the `Rejected` state like other runners by
issuing the [`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject) command. If a preadopted
static runner is rejected, a new runner token must be created for the runner before it
is allowed to receive jobs again.

## Pending Static Runners

The `Pending` runner state is the default state which newly installed static runners
will be in, as they have yet to receive a runner token from the server. Static runners
in this state can talk to a Waypoint server but will not receive jobs to run.
Static runners will also show up in this state if they are forgotten about by the server with
the [`waypoint runner forget`](/waypoint/commands/runner-forget) command.

When in the `Pending` state, static runners may be moved into the `Adopted` state by
issuing the [`waypoint runner adopt`](/waypoint/commands/runner-adopt) command with the
desired Runner ID.

Runners automatically skip this state if they are in the `Preadopted` state.

## Adopted Static Runners

Static runners adopted with [`waypoint runner adopt`](/waypoint/commands/runner-adopt) will
store a runner token received by the server in their configured state
directory, which is local to the static runner itself. Once a static runner has been
adopted, it may start receiving job assignments from the Waypoint server as usual.

## Rejected Runners

When a user rejects a Waypoint runner with the
[`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject) command, the rejected runner
is no longer able to receive job assignments from the Waypoint server.

Rejected runners will continue to appear in the list of runners that the server
knows about so that subsequent requests by this same runner are ignored.

Rejecting a runner does not invalidate its token. If a rejected runner is
forgotten the previously rejected runner may reconnect to the server as long as
its token is not expired. This runner will be able to accept jobs as if it were
never rejected in the first place.

# Runner Tokens

Runner tokens are special tokens which can only be used by runners to recieve
job assignments from the Waypoint server. These tokens cannot be revoked, only
rejected through the [`waypoint runner reject`](/waypoint/commands/runner-reject)
command. By default runner tokens are valid for 30 days and upon expiring they
will need to be recreated with [`waypoint runner token`](/waypoint/commands/runner-token).
Runners must then be restarted with the new token to receive job assignments
again. Token expirations may be altered when generating a runner token with
[`waypoint runner token`](/waypoint/commands/runner-token).

The Waypoint runner will look for the token in two places before requesting a
new token from the Waypoint server. First, the runner will look in its state
directory for a `token` file containing a Waypoint runner token. If a `token`
file doesn't exist then the Waypoint Runner will look in the
`WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` environment variable. If both of these locations do not
contain a token then the Waypoint Runner enters the `Pending` state and an
adoption request is sent to the server for a user to manually adopt. Runners
adopted store the received token within the `token` file in the runner's state
directory.

See [Additional Runners](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual) for more information about
Waypoint Runner installation.
