website/content/docs/runner/config.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runner Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute Waypoint operations remotely. Runners can be configured to have environment variables and files exposed during certain project operations.
---

# Runner Configuration

Runners may require additional configuration such as cloud credentials,
Docker registry credentials, etc. Waypoint enables runners to be configured
with environment variables and files at runtime, either globally or specific
to certain environments.

## Environment Variables

### Via the CLI

You can set environment variables using [`waypoint config`](/waypoint/commands/config-set)
with the `-runner` flag:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -runner -scope=global AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=abcd AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=1234
```

This will expose these environment variables on every runner (including
a CLI runner when an operation runs locally). To unset any variables, assign it to
an empty value. You may view the set of runner configuration values using
`waypoint config get`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config get -runner
   SCOPE  |    NAME               | VALUE | WORKSPACE | LABELS
----------+-----------------------+-------+-----------+---------
  global  | AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID     | abcd  |           |
  global  | AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | 1234  |           |
```

~> **Security note:** HCP Waypoint stores these values encrypted within its backend
using HashiCorp Vault. If that's unsatisfactory, you can set the environment variables
manually when [manually running the runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual).

~> **Security note:** On a self hosted Waypoint server, these configuration values are
stored as plaintext in the Waypoint server data file. If you do not want to store any
secrets on the Waypoint server, you must set the environment variables manually when
[manually running the runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual).

You can use the `-scope` flag paired with flags such as `-project`,
`-label-scope`, and `-workspace-scope` to set runner variables that are only
available within certain scoped situations. Unscoped variables are globally sent to
all runners.

Consider an example where you're using a `dev` and a `prod` workspace in Waypoint.
These workspaces match up to your `dev` and `prod` environments.
For this example, let's assume that you use Nomad (with an ACL-enabled cluster), and
your `dev` and `prod` environments are separated into different namespaces by the name names. These two different workspaces need to be configured by Waypoint to deploy
to the proper environments in Nomad.
To accomplish this, you would set your runner config to use workspace-scoped
config: a Nomad token with permissions to submit jobs to the `dev` namespace
is used for the `dev` Waypoint workspace, and another token with permissions to
submit jobs to the `prod` namespace for the `prod` Waypoint workspace. Here's what
that could look like:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -runner -workspace-scope=dev NOMAD_TOKEN=abc123

$ waypoint config set -runner -workspace-scope=prod NOMAD_TOKEN=def456

$ waypoint config get -runner
   SCOPE  |    NAME     |                VALUE                 | WORKSPACE | LABELS
----------+-------------+--------------------------------------+-----------+---------
  project | NOMAD_TOKEN | abc123                               | dev       |
  project | NOMAD_TOKEN | def456                               | prod      |

```

With configurations set in this way, operations executed in a given workspace will
use the `NOMAD_TOKEN` configured for the corresponding environment automatically.

### Via the `waypoint.hcl` File

Environment variables for runners can also be set via the `waypoint.hcl`
file. This uses the same syntax as the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config):

```hcl
config {
  runner {
    // All config in here is exposed only on runners.

    env = {
      AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = "abcd"
    }
  }

  // App config is here...
}
```

This configuration is scoped only to the project or application of
the `waypoint.hcl` file.

## Files

Using the `waypoint.hcl` file, you can configure data to be stored in files
that are available to runners when running operations for that project or application.
You cannot configure files to be available globally to the server. This behaves similarly to
[application configuration files](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files).

```hcl
config {
  runner {
    file = {
      "config/config.json" = "file contents"
    }
  }

  // App config is here...
}
```

-> **Note:** The user that is running the runner must have permission to
write to the given file paths. File paths are not cleaned up after the
runner operation completes as this feature presume On-demand runners are in use, as
they are the most common production deployment setup.

## Dynamic Values

When using the `waypoint.hcl` format, runners may make use of
[dynamic values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic) to source configuration
from external sources. The `runner` stanza also has access to
[internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) for composing multiple
values together.

Note that runner variables only have access to internal variables
specified within the `runner` stanza. Variables specified at the app-level
`config` stanza are not inherited.

For example, the following **is not valid**:

```hcl
// This is invalid!
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = "localhost"
    "db_user" = "admin"
  }

  runner {
    // This does not work because the "internal" variables were only
    // specified at the app-level, not the runner level.
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "${config.internal.db_user}@${config.internal.db_host}"
    }
  }
}
```

## Runner profiles

To modify the way that Waypoint launches on-demand runners, see [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/config.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runner Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute Waypoint operations remotely. Runners can be configured to have environment variables and files exposed during certain project operations.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Runner Configuration

Runners may require additional configuration such as cloud credentials,
Docker registry credentials, etc. Waypoint enables runners to be configured
with environment variables and files at runtime, either globally or specific
to certain environments.

## Environment Variables

### Via the CLI

You can set environment variables using [`waypoint config`](/waypoint/commands/config-set)
with the `-runner` flag:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -runner -scope=global AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=abcd AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=1234
```

This will expose these environment variables on every runner (including
a CLI runner when an operation runs locally). To unset any variables, assign it to
an empty value. You may view the set of runner configuration values using
`waypoint config get`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config get -runner
   SCOPE  |    NAME               | VALUE | WORKSPACE | LABELS
----------+-----------------------+-------+-----------+---------
  global  | AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID     | abcd  |           |
  global  | AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | 1234  |           |
```

~> **Security note:** HCP Waypoint stores these values encrypted within its backend
using HashiCorp Vault. If that's unsatisfactory, you can set the environment variables
manually when [manually running the runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual).

~> **Security note:** On a self hosted Waypoint server, these configuration values are
stored as plaintext in the Waypoint server data file. If you do not want to store any
secrets on the Waypoint server, you must set the environment variables manually when
[manually running the runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual).

You can use the `-scope` flag paired with flags such as `-project`,
`-label-scope`, and `-workspace-scope` to set runner variables that are only
available within certain scoped situations. Unscoped variables are globally sent to
all runners.

Consider an example where you're using a `dev` and a `prod` workspace in Waypoint.
These workspaces match up to your `dev` and `prod` environments.
For this example, let's assume that you use Nomad (with an ACL-enabled cluster), and
your `dev` and `prod` environments are separated into different namespaces by the name names. These two different workspaces need to be configured by Waypoint to deploy
to the proper environments in Nomad.
To accomplish this, you would set your runner config to use workspace-scoped
config: a Nomad token with permissions to submit jobs to the `dev` namespace
is used for the `dev` Waypoint workspace, and another token with permissions to
submit jobs to the `prod` namespace for the `prod` Waypoint workspace. Here's what
that could look like:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -runner -workspace-scope=dev NOMAD_TOKEN=abc123

$ waypoint config set -runner -workspace-scope=prod NOMAD_TOKEN=def456

$ waypoint config get -runner
   SCOPE  |    NAME     |                VALUE                 | WORKSPACE | LABELS
----------+-------------+--------------------------------------+-----------+---------
  project | NOMAD_TOKEN | abc123                               | dev       |
  project | NOMAD_TOKEN | def456                               | prod      |

```

With configurations set in this way, operations executed in a given workspace will
use the `NOMAD_TOKEN` configured for the corresponding environment automatically.

### Via the `waypoint.hcl` File

Environment variables for runners can also be set via the `waypoint.hcl`
file. This uses the same syntax as the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config):

```hcl
config {
  runner {
    // All config in here is exposed only on runners.

    env = {
      AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = "abcd"
    }
  }

  // App config is here...
}
```

This configuration is scoped only to the project or application of
the `waypoint.hcl` file.

## Files

Using the `waypoint.hcl` file, you can configure data to be stored in files
that are available to runners when running operations for that project or application.
You cannot configure files to be available globally to the server. This behaves similarly to
[application configuration files](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files).

```hcl
config {
  runner {
    file = {
      "config/config.json" = "file contents"
    }
  }

  // App config is here...
}
```

-> **Note:** The user that is running the runner must have permission to
write to the given file paths. File paths are not cleaned up after the
runner operation completes as this feature presume On-demand runners are in use, as
they are the most common production deployment setup.

## Dynamic Values

When using the `waypoint.hcl` format, runners may make use of
[dynamic values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic) to source configuration
from external sources. The `runner` stanza also has access to
[internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) for composing multiple
values together.

Note that runner variables only have access to internal variables
specified within the `runner` stanza. Variables specified at the app-level
`config` stanza are not inherited.

For example, the following **is not valid**:

```hcl
// This is invalid!
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = "localhost"
    "db_user" = "admin"
  }

  runner {
    // This does not work because the "internal" variables were only
    // specified at the app-level, not the runner level.
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "${config.internal.db_user}@${config.internal.db_host}"
    }
  }
}
```

## Runner profiles

To modify the way that Waypoint launches on-demand runners, see [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles).
