website/content/docs/runner/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runners
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute Waypoint operations remotely. Runners are responsible for performing builds and deploys, polling projects for changes, and more.
---

# Waypoint Runners

Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute operations. A runner is a program executing
[`waypoint runner agent`](/waypoint/commands/runner-agent) that is configured with the details
of the Waypoint server.

Every operation that Waypoint runs (build, deploy, release, etc) is executed by a Waypoint runner.
The Waypoint server maintains a queue of jobs that the server hands out to connected
runners. The server never connects directly to runners, runners always connect to the
server. This is important because runners are designed to be run in the same
environment that your application is deployed into because the plugins such as Deploy
need to talk directly to your deployment platform APIs.

In most deployments, there are two kinds of runners:

### Static Runner

Static runners are long-lived runners that are installed into your deployment
environment once, likely when you setup Waypoint for the first time.

The [`waypoint install`](/waypoint/commands/install) and [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install)
commands can install these runners for you, using details about your deployment
environment.

One issue with static runners is that they have fixed capacity: they can only run so
many operations at a time. Additionally to run certain plugins like Docker, we need to have
uniquely configured environments.

For that reason, Waypoint makes heavy usage of on-demand runners:

### On-Demand Runners

While the static runner is capable of performing operations on its own, it also
supports the ability to spawn on-demand runners for a given platform. These
on-demand runners are ephemeral container instances that perform one operation only.
They can perform container builds without any privileged access, offer more isolation
between operations, and allow Waypoint to scale further.

On-demand runners: see [on-demand runners](/waypoint/docs/runner/on-demand-runner) for more information.

### Runner Architecture

This diagram shows the relationship between Waypoint and remote static and on-demand runners, on your infrastructure of choice:

<ImageConfig width={400}>

![Runner architecture](/img/oss_runner_no_control_plane@2x.jpg)

</ImageConfig>

## Other Runners

One runner behavior is used less often, the CLI runner:

### CLI Runner

When you trigger an action with the CLI, i.e. by running `waypoint deploy`, and
either specify `-local` or do not have any runners registered on the server, the CLI
itself acts as a runner capable of performing your operation. If your deployment needs
AWS credentials, or a valid kubectl context, it can access the credentials from the
environment that is performing the CLI command.

This diagram shows a CLI runner, as well as remote static and on-demand runners:

<ImageConfig width={400}>

![CLI and remote runners](/img/oss_cli_and_remote_runners@2x.jpg)

</ImageConfig>

## Runner Targeting

Runner targeting was designed with multi-environment and multi-region workflows in mind.
Static runners can be installed with user-defined ID and labels.
You can then set [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles), which tell the server which static runner to target to handle operations,
and the configurations of the short-lived on-demand runner that will execute jobs.
Finally, specify which `runner profile` to use for an application via
the `profile` option in the `runner` stanza of the `waypoint.hcl` file.

### Runner Targeting Example

If you install a runner with the `runner install` or `server install` commands,
it comes with a preset `runner profile` and adopted static runner.

The following example illustrates a custom local setup of a Waypoint runner and profile.

```terminal
$ waypoint runner agent -name=test -label=org=hashicorp -label=env=dev
```

Static runners need a valid runner token and server adoption in order to receive jobs.
For more information on runner adoption, see [adoption workflow](/waypoint/docs/runner/adoption).

With `waypoint runner list`, you can see the full list of available
runners and their labels.

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner list
    ID   |   STATE    |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
---------+------------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  test   | preadopted | remote | org:hashicorp env:dev  | 6 seconds ago

$ waypoint runner adopt test
Runner "test" adopted.

$ waypoint runner list
    ID   |  STATE  |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
---------+---------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  test   | adopted | remote | org:hashicorp env:dev  | 1 minute ago
```

You can now set a runner profile to target that specific static runner by ID,
or any static runner that has matching labels. When there is a runner profile specified
in the `waypoint.hcl` configurations, only a matching static runner can receive jobs
for that application and generate on-demand runners to execute them.

```terminal
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=docker-hashicorp-dev -plugin-type=docker -target-runner-label=org=hashicorp -target-runner-label=env=dev
✓ Runner profile created
```

```shell-session
                  NAME                  | PLUGIN TYPE |               OCI URL                |              TARGET RUNNER              | DEFAULT
----------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+----------
  docker-hashicorp-dev                  | docker      | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest        | labels: {"env":"dev","org":"hashicorp"} |
```

Specify the runner profile to use with the `runner` stanza in the `waypoint.hcl` file.
In this example, a user variable "org" and the built-in
`workspace` variable are interpolated into the runner profile name.
At the time of execution of remote operations, Waypoint uses the desired runner
profile based on the workspace and configuration variables.

```hcl
project = "example-nodejs"

app "example-nodejs" {
  runner {
    profile = "docker-${var.org}-${workspace.name}"
  }

  build {
    # ...
  }

  deploy {
    # ...
  }

  release {
    # ...
  }
}

variable "org" {
  type = string
}
```

Our runner targeting is all set up! An example operation that would use this runner profile:

`waypoint build -w=dev -var=org=hashicorp -local=false`.

### Runner Targeting Advantages

#### Multi-Cluster, Multi-Environment, Multi-Region

As shown in the example above, enabling multi-environment operations is
the most straightforward use-case for runner targeting. Waypoint dynamically interpolates
the "dev" workspace into the runner profile name at operation runtime,
which then targets the matching static runner for the "dev" environment.
You could create additional runners and runner profiles for the "prod" and "test" environments,
and Waypoint would target the correct runners automagically with a simple `-workspace` flag.

Runner targeting is also useful for workflows where you deploy to multiple clusters
on a platform. A static runner pod in one Kubernetes cluster
would only perform remote operations within that cluster.
With runners in multiple Kubernetes clusters, you can easily target and deploy
to any cluster with Waypoint remote operations.

#### High Availability and Performance

In a production environment, runner targeting may be essential to achieving high availability.
Deploying multiple runners with the same labels and a runner profile that targets
those same labels will cause Waypoint to "round-robin" between the available
runners. This approach reduces bottleneck of one static runner handling a large job
queue, and ensures continued availability if one of the runners goes down. As long as
one of the static runners with matching labels remains online, remote operations on
the application continue uninterrupted.

## Disabling Runners

Runners can be disabled if desired. With runners disabled, Waypoint executes
all operations via the local CLI (even when communicating with a remote
[server](/waypoint/docs/server)).

### Unavailable Functionality

With runners disabled, certain functionality becomes unavailable:

- Remote operations
- Git polling
- Status Checks

In addition to disabled functionality, consider that all clients must now
have proper credentials for the target platforms (such as AWS, GCP, etc.)
since without runners they must execute all operations locally.

The reason this functionality is not available is the server creates jobs to
perform these operations itself and without a long lived runner to execute them, the
functionality is not available.

### Disabling Runner Installation

Prior to installation, runners can be disabled by specifying the
`-runner=false` flag to the [`waypoint install`](/waypoint/commands/install) command.
This will not install a runner.

### Removing a Runner

If there is a runner which you'd no longer like your server to use for remote
operations, this runner can be "invalidated" for use by the server with the
`waypoint runner reject` command, with the ID of the runner provided.

With the runner forgotten, the server will no longer send any jobs to it. To cleanup
the resources being used by that runner though, there are two options:

To uninstall a runner that is already installed, there are two options:

1. You may also manually go into your platform and delete the runner. For instance
   with kubernetes, you'd delete the StatefulSet that maintains the static runner.
2. Uninstall and reinstall Waypoint with a
   [data snapshot and restore](/waypoint/docs/server/run/maintenance#backup-restore). This is
   a fairly substantial action and should only be undertaken if there is no other
   options.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runners
description: |-
  Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute Waypoint operations remotely. Runners are responsible for performing builds and deploys, polling projects for changes, and more.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runners

Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute operations. A runner is a program executing
[`waypoint runner agent`](/waypoint/commands/runner-agent) that is configured with the details
of the Waypoint server.

Every operation that Waypoint runs (build, deploy, release, etc) is executed by a Waypoint runner.
The Waypoint server maintains a queue of jobs that the server hands out to connected
runners. The server never connects directly to runners, runners always connect to the
server. This is important because runners are designed to be run in the same
environment that your application is deployed into because the plugins such as Deploy
need to talk directly to your deployment platform APIs.

In most deployments, there are two kinds of runners:

### Static Runner

Static runners are long-lived runners that are installed into your deployment
environment once, likely when you setup Waypoint for the first time.

The [`waypoint install`](/waypoint/commands/install) and [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install)
commands can install these runners for you, using details about your deployment
environment.

One issue with static runners is that they have fixed capacity: they can only run so
many operations at a time. Additionally to run certain plugins like Docker, we need to have
uniquely configured environments.

For that reason, Waypoint makes heavy usage of on-demand runners:

### On-Demand Runners

While the static runner is capable of performing operations on its own, it also
supports the ability to spawn on-demand runners for a given platform. These
on-demand runners are ephemeral container instances that perform one operation only.
They can perform container builds without any privileged access, offer more isolation
between operations, and allow Waypoint to scale further.

On-demand runners: see [on-demand runners](/waypoint/docs/runner/on-demand-runner) for more information.

### Runner Architecture

This diagram shows the relationship between Waypoint and remote static and on-demand runners, on your infrastructure of choice:

<ImageConfig width={400}>

![Runner architecture](/img/oss_runner_no_control_plane@2x.jpg)

</ImageConfig>

## Other Runners

One runner behavior is used less often, the CLI runner:

### CLI Runner

When you trigger an action with the CLI, i.e. by running `waypoint deploy`, and
either specify `-local` or do not have any runners registered on the server, the CLI
itself acts as a runner capable of performing your operation. If your deployment needs
AWS credentials, or a valid kubectl context, it can access the credentials from the
environment that is performing the CLI command.

This diagram shows a CLI runner, as well as remote static and on-demand runners:

<ImageConfig width={400}>

![CLI and remote runners](/img/oss_cli_and_remote_runners@2x.jpg)

</ImageConfig>

## Runner Targeting

Runner targeting was designed with multi-environment and multi-region workflows in mind.
Static runners can be installed with user-defined ID and labels.
You can then set [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles), which tell the server which static runner to target to handle operations,
and the configurations of the short-lived on-demand runner that will execute jobs.
Finally, specify which `runner profile` to use for an application via
the `profile` option in the `runner` stanza of the `waypoint.hcl` file.

### Runner Targeting Example

If you install a runner with the `runner install` or `server install` commands,
it comes with a preset `runner profile` and adopted static runner.

The following example illustrates a custom local setup of a Waypoint runner and profile.

```terminal
$ waypoint runner agent -name=test -label=org=hashicorp -label=env=dev
```

Static runners need a valid runner token and server adoption in order to receive jobs.
For more information on runner adoption, see [adoption workflow](/waypoint/docs/runner/adoption).

With `waypoint runner list`, you can see the full list of available
runners and their labels.

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner list
    ID   |   STATE    |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
---------+------------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  test   | preadopted | remote | org:hashicorp env:dev  | 6 seconds ago

$ waypoint runner adopt test
Runner "test" adopted.

$ waypoint runner list
    ID   |  STATE  |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
---------+---------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  test   | adopted | remote | org:hashicorp env:dev  | 1 minute ago
```

You can now set a runner profile to target that specific static runner by ID,
or any static runner that has matching labels. When there is a runner profile specified
in the `waypoint.hcl` configurations, only a matching static runner can receive jobs
for that application and generate on-demand runners to execute them.

```terminal
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=docker-hashicorp-dev -plugin-type=docker -target-runner-label=org=hashicorp -target-runner-label=env=dev
✓ Runner profile created
```

```shell-session
                  NAME                  | PLUGIN TYPE |               OCI URL                |              TARGET RUNNER              | DEFAULT
----------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+----------
  docker-hashicorp-dev                  | docker      | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest        | labels: {"env":"dev","org":"hashicorp"} |
```

Specify the runner profile to use with the `runner` stanza in the `waypoint.hcl` file.
In this example, a user variable "org" and the built-in
`workspace` variable are interpolated into the runner profile name.
At the time of execution of remote operations, Waypoint uses the desired runner
profile based on the workspace and configuration variables.

```hcl
project = "example-nodejs"

app "example-nodejs" {
  runner {
    profile = "docker-${var.org}-${workspace.name}"
  }

  build {
    # ...
  }

  deploy {
    # ...
  }

  release {
    # ...
  }
}

variable "org" {
  type = string
}
```

Our runner targeting is all set up! An example operation that would use this runner profile:

`waypoint build -w=dev -var=org=hashicorp -local=false`.

### Runner Targeting Advantages

#### Multi-Cluster, Multi-Environment, Multi-Region

As shown in the example above, enabling multi-environment operations is
the most straightforward use-case for runner targeting. Waypoint dynamically interpolates
the "dev" workspace into the runner profile name at operation runtime,
which then targets the matching static runner for the "dev" environment.
You could create additional runners and runner profiles for the "prod" and "test" environments,
and Waypoint would target the correct runners automagically with a simple `-workspace` flag.

Runner targeting is also useful for workflows where you deploy to multiple clusters
on a platform. A static runner pod in one Kubernetes cluster
would only perform remote operations within that cluster.
With runners in multiple Kubernetes clusters, you can easily target and deploy
to any cluster with Waypoint remote operations.

#### High Availability and Performance

In a production environment, runner targeting may be essential to achieving high availability.
Deploying multiple runners with the same labels and a runner profile that targets
those same labels will cause Waypoint to "round-robin" between the available
runners. This approach reduces bottleneck of one static runner handling a large job
queue, and ensures continued availability if one of the runners goes down. As long as
one of the static runners with matching labels remains online, remote operations on
the application continue uninterrupted.

## Disabling Runners

Runners can be disabled if desired. With runners disabled, Waypoint executes
all operations via the local CLI (even when communicating with a remote
[server](/waypoint/docs/server)).

### Unavailable Functionality

With runners disabled, certain functionality becomes unavailable:

- Remote operations
- Git polling
- Status Checks

In addition to disabled functionality, consider that all clients must now
have proper credentials for the target platforms (such as AWS, GCP, etc.)
since without runners they must execute all operations locally.

The reason this functionality is not available is the server creates jobs to
perform these operations itself and without a long lived runner to execute them, the
functionality is not available.

### Disabling Runner Installation

Prior to installation, runners can be disabled by specifying the
`-runner=false` flag to the [`waypoint install`](/waypoint/commands/install) command.
This will not install a runner.

### Removing a Runner

If there is a runner which you'd no longer like your server to use for remote
operations, this runner can be "invalidated" for use by the server with the
`waypoint runner reject` command, with the ID of the runner provided.

With the runner forgotten, the server will no longer send any jobs to it. To cleanup
the resources being used by that runner though, there are two options:

To uninstall a runner that is already installed, there are two options:

1. You may also manually go into your platform and delete the runner. For instance
   with kubernetes, you'd delete the StatefulSet that maintains the static runner.
2. Uninstall and reinstall Waypoint with a
   [data snapshot and restore](/waypoint/docs/server/run/maintenance#backup-restore). This is
   a fairly substantial action and should only be undertaken if there is no other
   options.
