website/content/docs/runner/on-demand-runner.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: On-Demand Runners
description: |-
  A brief overview about on-demand runners and their role in Waypoint.
---

# On-Demand Runners

On-demand runners allow a single Waypoint installation to scale by
leveraging the defined platform to spawn resources to execute Waypoint jobs.
Through on-demand runner profiles and static runner targeting, Waypoint can
even utilize resources from multiple platforms.
For example, you could configure a local Kubernetes server install could be configured to use Amazon ECS
to execute jobs.

## Job Assignment

When the server receives a job, if on-demand runners are enabled, it
will signal a static runner to spawn an on-demand runner and place the job in held.
This is the same mechanism we use for automatic CLI runners. When the on-demand
runner starts, it will execute the normal Waypoint runner code and connect back
to the server. Upon connection, the server sees the job being held
and send it immediately to the new runner.

The flow of information about the job uses the normal grpc runner APIs so all
the input and output remain the same as if the work were performed by the any other
runner type.

Upon finishing the job, the on-demand runner will exit and the platform it runs
on will reclaim its resources.

### Launching Tasks to Execute Jobs

When Waypoint goes to launch an on-demand runner task, it will generate four
jobs:

- `StartJob`
- `TaskJob`
- `WatchJob`
- `StopJob`

The start job schedules resources in the platform to execute
the assigned job. Once that resources exists, the `TaskJob` runs the actual assigned job.
While running, the `WatchJob` operation monitors output to provide debugging information about
the on-demand runner. Finally, once the original operation completes, the task
plugin system will launch a `StopJob` operation to clean up the launched platform resource.

## On-Demand Runner Profiles

Users can configure Waypoint server to launch on-demand runners with specific
configurations. These configurations are set through on-demand runner profiles.
See [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles) for more information.

## OCI/Docker Image

By default, the server will launch on-demand runners using the same OCI image the
server was configured with. For HCP Waypoint, there is no default. The on-demand
configuration also accepts a specific OCI image URL to use instead. This allows
operators the ability to prepackage any Waypoint plugins into the image and use
them in their configuration.

The official on-demand runner container image is built very similarly to the Waypoint
server, with some additional packages such as `kaniko` for doing in-container
builds for jobs like the `Build` operation.

See the [runner profile docs on OCI URLs](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles#oci-url) for more information.

## Profile Configuration

To customize the environment and other launch configurations of an on-demand runner,
please consult the [on-demand runner profile documentation](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles).

Those docs detail how to configure and communicate the various aspects of an on-demand runner launch.

## Official Waypoint Supported Task Plugin Platforms

We currently support the following platforms for launching on-demand runner tasks:

- [Kubernetes](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/components/task)
- [HashiCorp/Nomad](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/nomad/latest/components/task)
- [AWS/ECS](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/aws-ecs/latest/components/task)
- [Docker](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/task)

-> **Self-managed Waypoint server:** When you use the `waypoint server install` command,
we automatically set up a default on-demand runner profile for you that matches the
platform of the server installation.

## Adding on-demand runner support for other platforms

On-demand runner support can be implemented for additional platforms
using the [plugin SDK](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint).

Plugins expect to fulfill the SDK interface with the following functions:

- `StartTask`
- `WatchTask`
- `StopTask`

These functions are what launch, monitor, and stop the spawned resource used to
execute the Waypoint runner code.

## Task Inspection

The CLI command `waypoint task` gives users more insight into the task launcher system and
what Waypoint does with remote-enabled projects. Tasks are the operations that
on-demand runners are built off of within Waypoint.

This command listing all known tasks in the system:

```shell
$ waypoint task list

» Waypoint On-Demand Runner Tasks
              ID             | RUN JOB OPERATION | PIPELINE   | TASK STATE |   PROJECT   |  TIME CREATED  | TIME COMPLETED
-----------------------------+-------------------+------------+------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------
  01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G | ConfigSync        |            | STARTED    | k8s-tetris  | 1 week ago     |
  01G1RYP6JFSEAQVE2SQX38Q19D | Up                |            | RUNNING    | go-gitops-0 | 3 seconds ago  |
  01G1RYP37X5FTD9TFZQE5J2BQM | QueueProject      |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 7 seconds ago  | 3 seconds ago
  01G1RYP08Z9V18HMBP5XDPP0KA | Poll              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 10 seconds ago | 6 seconds ago
  01G1RYNTQJ5421K3QBYR6FPAZP | Init              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 15 seconds ago | 12 seconds ago
  01G1RYNNEK141B23YDE26XPED7 | Init              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 21 seconds ago | 15 seconds ago
```

You can also take a closer look at an individual task using `waypoint task inspect`.
This output includes information about the runners that handled the job,
as well as the four jobs (TaskJob, StartJob, WatchJob, StopJob) in the operation task.

```shell
$ waypoint task inspect 01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G

» On-Demand Runner Task Configuration
      Task ID: 01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G
   Task State: STARTED
    Workspace: default
      Project: k8s-tetris
  Application: tetris

» Task Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSYYVEFK9JNYKNA73XZ0X
      Operation: ConfigSync
  Target Runner: 01GBWYSYYVAJWMS6RWFNQV9MGR
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
  State: Queued

» Watch Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ02YH9M2P5VPKPVG40G
      Operation: WatchTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
          State: Success
  Complete Time: 1 week ago

» Start Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ02W2N6SHF0A7BW6EXC
      Operation: StartTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
          State: Success
  Complete Time: 1 week ago

» Stop Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ0237HREZ0FBJKMJ7HW
      Operation: StopTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
  State: Queued
```

This view will also show you the job status for a given Task.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/on-demand-runner.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: On-Demand Runners
description: |-
  A brief overview about on-demand runners and their role in Waypoint.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# On-Demand Runners

On-demand runners allow a single Waypoint installation to scale by
leveraging the defined platform to spawn resources to execute Waypoint jobs.
Through on-demand runner profiles and static runner targeting, Waypoint can
even utilize resources from multiple platforms.
For example, you could configure a local Kubernetes server install could be configured to use Amazon ECS
to execute jobs.

## Job Assignment

When the server receives a job, if on-demand runners are enabled, it
will signal a static runner to spawn an on-demand runner and place the job in held.
This is the same mechanism we use for automatic CLI runners. When the on-demand
runner starts, it will execute the normal Waypoint runner code and connect back
to the server. Upon connection, the server sees the job being held
and send it immediately to the new runner.

The flow of information about the job uses the normal grpc runner APIs so all
the input and output remain the same as if the work were performed by the any other
runner type.

Upon finishing the job, the on-demand runner will exit and the platform it runs
on will reclaim its resources.

### Launching Tasks to Execute Jobs

When Waypoint goes to launch an on-demand runner task, it will generate four
jobs:

- `StartJob`
- `TaskJob`
- `WatchJob`
- `StopJob`

The start job schedules resources in the platform to execute
the assigned job. Once that resources exists, the `TaskJob` runs the actual assigned job.
While running, the `WatchJob` operation monitors output to provide debugging information about
the on-demand runner. Finally, once the original operation completes, the task
plugin system will launch a `StopJob` operation to clean up the launched platform resource.

## On-Demand Runner Profiles

Users can configure Waypoint server to launch on-demand runners with specific
configurations. These configurations are set through on-demand runner profiles.
See [runner profiles](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles) for more information.

## OCI/Docker Image

By default, the server will launch on-demand runners using the same OCI image the
server was configured with. For HCP Waypoint, there is no default. The on-demand
configuration also accepts a specific OCI image URL to use instead. This allows
operators the ability to prepackage any Waypoint plugins into the image and use
them in their configuration.

The official on-demand runner container image is built very similarly to the Waypoint
server, with some additional packages such as `kaniko` for doing in-container
builds for jobs like the `Build` operation.

See the [runner profile docs on OCI URLs](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles#oci-url) for more information.

## Profile Configuration

To customize the environment and other launch configurations of an on-demand runner,
please consult the [on-demand runner profile documentation](/waypoint/docs/runner/profiles).

Those docs detail how to configure and communicate the various aspects of an on-demand runner launch.

## Official Waypoint Supported Task Plugin Platforms

We currently support the following platforms for launching on-demand runner tasks:

- [Kubernetes](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/components/task)
- [HashiCorp/Nomad](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/nomad/latest/components/task)
- [AWS/ECS](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/aws-ecs/latest/components/task)
- [Docker](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/task)

-> **Self-managed Waypoint server:** When you use the `waypoint server install` command,
we automatically set up a default on-demand runner profile for you that matches the
platform of the server installation.

## Adding on-demand runner support for other platforms

On-demand runner support can be implemented for additional platforms
using the [plugin SDK](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint).

Plugins expect to fulfill the SDK interface with the following functions:

- `StartTask`
- `WatchTask`
- `StopTask`

These functions are what launch, monitor, and stop the spawned resource used to
execute the Waypoint runner code.

## Task Inspection

The CLI command `waypoint task` gives users more insight into the task launcher system and
what Waypoint does with remote-enabled projects. Tasks are the operations that
on-demand runners are built off of within Waypoint.

This command listing all known tasks in the system:

```shell
$ waypoint task list

» Waypoint On-Demand Runner Tasks
              ID             | RUN JOB OPERATION | PIPELINE   | TASK STATE |   PROJECT   |  TIME CREATED  | TIME COMPLETED
-----------------------------+-------------------+------------+------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------
  01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G | ConfigSync        |            | STARTED    | k8s-tetris  | 1 week ago     |
  01G1RYP6JFSEAQVE2SQX38Q19D | Up                |            | RUNNING    | go-gitops-0 | 3 seconds ago  |
  01G1RYP37X5FTD9TFZQE5J2BQM | QueueProject      |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 7 seconds ago  | 3 seconds ago
  01G1RYP08Z9V18HMBP5XDPP0KA | Poll              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 10 seconds ago | 6 seconds ago
  01G1RYNTQJ5421K3QBYR6FPAZP | Init              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 15 seconds ago | 12 seconds ago
  01G1RYNNEK141B23YDE26XPED7 | Init              |            | STOPPED    | go-gitops-0 | 21 seconds ago | 15 seconds ago
```

You can also take a closer look at an individual task using `waypoint task inspect`.
This output includes information about the runners that handled the job,
as well as the four jobs (TaskJob, StartJob, WatchJob, StopJob) in the operation task.

```shell
$ waypoint task inspect 01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G

» On-Demand Runner Task Configuration
      Task ID: 01GBWYSZ02YEB3EHMVQCA5240G
   Task State: STARTED
    Workspace: default
      Project: k8s-tetris
  Application: tetris

» Task Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSYYVEFK9JNYKNA73XZ0X
      Operation: ConfigSync
  Target Runner: 01GBWYSYYVAJWMS6RWFNQV9MGR
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
  State: Queued

» Watch Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ02YH9M2P5VPKPVG40G
      Operation: WatchTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
          State: Success
  Complete Time: 1 week ago

» Start Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ02W2N6SHF0A7BW6EXC
      Operation: StartTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
          State: Success
  Complete Time: 1 week ago

» Stop Job Configuration
  Job Configuration:
         Job ID: 01GBWYSZ0237HREZ0FBJKMJ7HW
      Operation: StopTask
  Target Runner: *
      Workspace: default
        Project: k8s-tetris
    Application: tetris

  Job Results:
  State: Queued
```

This view will also show you the job status for a given Task.
