website/content/docs/runner/profiles.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runner Profiles
description: |-
  Each runner profile entry represents the ability to spawn runners (i.e. on-demand runners) when needed using the configured plugin.
---

# Runner Profiles

Waypoint's static runners can be configured to spawn fresh ephemeral runner instances (i.e. on-demand runners)
to perform app operations, such as building and deploying. Runner profiles describe the configuration and settings
necessary to create an on-demand runner. Profiles can be used globally, by project, or by app.

### Default Profiles

Waypoint installations performed with the `waypoint install` command come with a
default runner profile already configured.

## Viewing Runner Profiles

View runner profiles with the `waypoint runner profile list` command:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile list

     NAME                      | PLUGIN TYPE |           OCI URL             | DEFAULT
-------------------------------+-------------+-------------------------------+----------
  kubernetes-bootstrap-profile | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | yes
```

If there exists a default runner profile for a given plugin, Waypoint will use that
profile to create on-demand runners for each operation on the platform with that
plugin. For the majority of users, this default runner profile should be sufficient.

You can also closely inspect a runner profile by name with the
`waypoint runner profile inspect` command:

```shell-session
# waypoint runner profile inspect kubernetes-bootstrap-profile
» Runner profile:
                   Name: kubernetes-bootstrap-profile
                     ID: 01FHZH1T53SR7V68JGZ52BKSAK
                Default: true
                OCI URL: hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest
            Plugin Type: kubernetes
  Environment Variables: map[]

» Additional Plugin Configuration:

{
	"service_account": "waypoint-runner"
}

$ waypoint runner profile list
Runner profiles
     NAME                      | PLUGIN TYPE |            OCI URL            | DEFAULT
-------------------------------+-------------+-------------------------------+----------
  kubernetes-bootstrap-profile | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | yes
  ecs                          | aws-ecs     | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest |
```

## Runner Configuration

It may be necessary to add configuration (environment variables or files) to an
on-demand runner. The best way is to use runner config via
the `waypoint config -runner`, detailed [here](/waypoint/docs/runner/config). These
configuration variables will be available to any on-demand runner.

### Static environment variables

If you need to scope environment variables to a specific runner profile,
rather than every runner, you can use the `-env-vars` flag of
`waypoint runner profile set`, i.e.:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -env-vars="MODE=WAYPOINT_ODR" -env-vars="FOO=BAR" -plugin-type=kubernetes
```

This can be useful to configure the behavior of a custom runner image with multiple
modes of operation, for example.

### OCI URL

It may be necessary to change the runner profile OCI URL. This can be used to upgrade
or downgrade the version of the ODR image, or switch to a custom image that contains
custom tools or behavior.

Below is an example of switching the ODR image to a pre-release alpha version of
Waypoint:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -oci-url=ghcr.io/hashicorp/waypoint/alpha-odr:latest -plugin-type=kubernetes
```

### The Default Profile

The default runner profile for any given plugin will be used to create on-demand
runners for each operation on that plugin. The default profile can be changed to
different profile with the `waypoint runner profile set` command by setting
`-default=false` on the existing default profile, and `-default=true` on the new
profile.

If multiple profiles are set as the default, Waypoint will choose one at random for
each operation.

### Using or Modifying Plugin-Config

Waypoint on-demand runners are backed by the `Task` plugin type, which provides an
interface for launching short-lived container-based instances and is implemented by
the plugins for multiple platforms. To see the task config options for your platform
of interest, see [plugin docs](/waypoint/integrations). For example, the Kubernetes task plugin
docs are located [here](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/components/task).

The `-plugin-config` flag lets you modify the way that tasks are launched.
For example, to edit the Kubernetes default runner profile's plugin config to use a
different Kubernetes service account run `waypoint runner profile inspect` and copy
the `Additional Plugin Configuration` to a new file.

#### Json

If the `Additional Plugin Configuration` output is json,
create a json file with your new plugin config, at location
`./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.json`:

```json
{
  "service_account": "my-custom-service-account"
}
```

And then apply it to your plugin with `waypoint runner profile set`:

```
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -plugin-type=kubernetes -plugin-config=./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.json
```

#### Hcl

If the `Additional Plugin Configuration` output is hcl,
create an hcl file with your new plugin config, at location
`./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.hcl`:

```hcl
service_account=my-custom-service-account
```

And then apply it to your plugin with `waypoint runner profile set`:

```
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -plugin-type=kubernetes -plugin-config=./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.hcl
```

### Adding a New Runner Profile

Add new runner profiles with the `waypoint profile set` command. Customize the identifier with the `-name` flag.

Here's an example of creating a runner profile for aws-ecs:

First, write sample task plugin data to `./aws-ecs-plugin-config.hcl`:

```hcl
cluster = waypoint
execution_role_name = waypoint-server-execution-role
log_group = waypoint-runner-logs
odr_cpu = 512
odr_memory = 2048
region = "us-east-1"
security_group_id = "sg-087EXAMPLE62b25e6"
subnets = "subnet-01exmplc,subnet-fbexmpl3,subnet-acexmpl7,subnet-9aexmpl0"
task_role_name = waypoint-runner
```

Set the runner profile, referencing the above data.

```shell-session
waypoint runner profile set -name=ecs -plugin-type=aws-ecs -plugin-config=./aws-ecs-plugin-config.hcl
```

Note that to use this profile, the Waypoint static runner will need permission and
credentials to create ECS tasks in the desired cluster.

### Deleting a Runner Profile

Delete runner profiles with the `waypoint runner profile delete` command with the ID as the argument.
To get the runner ID, run `waypoint runner profile inspect` for a named runner.

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile list
Runner profiles
   NAME  | PLUGIN TYPE |            OCI URL            | TARGET RUNNER | DEFAULT
---------+-------------+-------------------------------+---------------+----------
  docker | docker      | waypoint-odr:dev              | *             | yes
  dev    | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | dev           |


$ waypoint runner profile inspect dev
» Runner profile:
                   Name: dev
                     ID: 01G65VD1SSB3HYJ3FS9K629A3B
                Default: false
                OCI URL: hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest
            Plugin Type: kubernetes
          Target Runner: dev
  Environment Variables: map[]


$ waypoint runner profile delete 01G65VD1SSB3HYJ3FS9K629A3B
» Runner profile deleted
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/profiles.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Runner Profiles
description: |-
  Each runner profile entry represents the ability to spawn runners (i.e. on-demand runners) when needed using the configured plugin.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Runner Profiles

Waypoint's static runners can be configured to spawn fresh ephemeral runner instances (i.e. on-demand runners)
to perform app operations, such as building and deploying. Runner profiles describe the configuration and settings
necessary to create an on-demand runner. Profiles can be used globally, by project, or by app.

### Default Profiles

Waypoint installations performed with the `waypoint install` command come with a
default runner profile already configured.

## Viewing Runner Profiles

View runner profiles with the `waypoint runner profile list` command:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile list

     NAME                      | PLUGIN TYPE |           OCI URL             | DEFAULT
-------------------------------+-------------+-------------------------------+----------
  kubernetes-bootstrap-profile | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | yes
```

If there exists a default runner profile for a given plugin, Waypoint will use that
profile to create on-demand runners for each operation on the platform with that
plugin. For the majority of users, this default runner profile should be sufficient.

You can also closely inspect a runner profile by name with the
`waypoint runner profile inspect` command:

```shell-session
# waypoint runner profile inspect kubernetes-bootstrap-profile
» Runner profile:
                   Name: kubernetes-bootstrap-profile
                     ID: 01FHZH1T53SR7V68JGZ52BKSAK
                Default: true
                OCI URL: hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest
            Plugin Type: kubernetes
  Environment Variables: map[]

» Additional Plugin Configuration:

{
	"service_account": "waypoint-runner"
}

$ waypoint runner profile list
Runner profiles
     NAME                      | PLUGIN TYPE |            OCI URL            | DEFAULT
-------------------------------+-------------+-------------------------------+----------
  kubernetes-bootstrap-profile | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | yes
  ecs                          | aws-ecs     | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest |
```

## Runner Configuration

It may be necessary to add configuration (environment variables or files) to an
on-demand runner. The best way is to use runner config via
the `waypoint config -runner`, detailed [here](/waypoint/docs/runner/config). These
configuration variables will be available to any on-demand runner.

### Static environment variables

If you need to scope environment variables to a specific runner profile,
rather than every runner, you can use the `-env-vars` flag of
`waypoint runner profile set`, i.e.:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -env-vars="MODE=WAYPOINT_ODR" -env-vars="FOO=BAR" -plugin-type=kubernetes
```

This can be useful to configure the behavior of a custom runner image with multiple
modes of operation, for example.

### OCI URL

It may be necessary to change the runner profile OCI URL. This can be used to upgrade
or downgrade the version of the ODR image, or switch to a custom image that contains
custom tools or behavior.

Below is an example of switching the ODR image to a pre-release alpha version of
Waypoint:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -oci-url=ghcr.io/hashicorp/waypoint/alpha-odr:latest -plugin-type=kubernetes
```

### The Default Profile

The default runner profile for any given plugin will be used to create on-demand
runners for each operation on that plugin. The default profile can be changed to
different profile with the `waypoint runner profile set` command by setting
`-default=false` on the existing default profile, and `-default=true` on the new
profile.

If multiple profiles are set as the default, Waypoint will choose one at random for
each operation.

### Using or Modifying Plugin-Config

Waypoint on-demand runners are backed by the `Task` plugin type, which provides an
interface for launching short-lived container-based instances and is implemented by
the plugins for multiple platforms. To see the task config options for your platform
of interest, see [plugin docs](/waypoint/integrations). For example, the Kubernetes task plugin
docs are located [here](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/components/task).

The `-plugin-config` flag lets you modify the way that tasks are launched.
For example, to edit the Kubernetes default runner profile's plugin config to use a
different Kubernetes service account run `waypoint runner profile inspect` and copy
the `Additional Plugin Configuration` to a new file.

#### Json

If the `Additional Plugin Configuration` output is json,
create a json file with your new plugin config, at location
`./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.json`:

```json
{
  "service_account": "my-custom-service-account"
}
```

And then apply it to your plugin with `waypoint runner profile set`:

```
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -plugin-type=kubernetes -plugin-config=./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.json
```

#### Hcl

If the `Additional Plugin Configuration` output is hcl,
create an hcl file with your new plugin config, at location
`./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.hcl`:

```hcl
service_account=my-custom-service-account
```

And then apply it to your plugin with `waypoint runner profile set`:

```
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=kubernetes -plugin-type=kubernetes -plugin-config=./k8s-runner-profile-plugin-config.hcl
```

### Adding a New Runner Profile

Add new runner profiles with the `waypoint profile set` command. Customize the identifier with the `-name` flag.

Here's an example of creating a runner profile for aws-ecs:

First, write sample task plugin data to `./aws-ecs-plugin-config.hcl`:

```hcl
cluster = waypoint
execution_role_name = waypoint-server-execution-role
log_group = waypoint-runner-logs
odr_cpu = 512
odr_memory = 2048
region = "us-east-1"
security_group_id = "sg-087EXAMPLE62b25e6"
subnets = "subnet-01exmplc,subnet-fbexmpl3,subnet-acexmpl7,subnet-9aexmpl0"
task_role_name = waypoint-runner
```

Set the runner profile, referencing the above data.

```shell-session
waypoint runner profile set -name=ecs -plugin-type=aws-ecs -plugin-config=./aws-ecs-plugin-config.hcl
```

Note that to use this profile, the Waypoint static runner will need permission and
credentials to create ECS tasks in the desired cluster.

### Deleting a Runner Profile

Delete runner profiles with the `waypoint runner profile delete` command with the ID as the argument.
To get the runner ID, run `waypoint runner profile inspect` for a named runner.

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner profile list
Runner profiles
   NAME  | PLUGIN TYPE |            OCI URL            | TARGET RUNNER | DEFAULT
---------+-------------+-------------------------------+---------------+----------
  docker | docker      | waypoint-odr:dev              | *             | yes
  dev    | kubernetes  | hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest | dev           |


$ waypoint runner profile inspect dev
» Runner profile:
                   Name: dev
                     ID: 01G65VD1SSB3HYJ3FS9K629A3B
                Default: false
                OCI URL: hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest
            Plugin Type: kubernetes
          Target Runner: dev
  Environment Variables: map[]


$ waypoint runner profile delete 01G65VD1SSB3HYJ3FS9K629A3B
» Runner profile deleted
```
