website/content/docs/runner/run-manual.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Additional Static Runners
description: |-
  The `waypoint install` command installs and manages a single Waypoint static
  runner. Additional static runners can be installed using `waypoint runner install` or
  mannualy.
---

# Additional Runners

With self managed Waypoint servers, the `waypoint install` command installs and
manages a single Waypoint static runner.

Additional static runners can be added using [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install), which automates the process of creating
resources in Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker to execute a static runner.

In the case that none of these work for you, you can configure a static runner manually as
well.

## Installing a Static Runner Automatically

Waypoint supports deploying a static runner to multiple platforms with one command.
Depending on the platform, different configurations can be provided to control
how the runner is deployed in a platform. By default, the
server will adopt the static runner and create a new runner profile for it after it
reports to the server.

To install a static runner, use the [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install)
command. Below is an example of using that command to install a Waypoint static runner to
Docker:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=docker -docker-runner-network=waypoint -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify=true
✓ Connecting to: waypoint-server:9701
✓ Runner 01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 installed successfully
✓ Runner profile docker-01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 created successfully.
✓ Waypoint runner installed and started!
✓ Runner detected by server
✓ Runner 01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 adopted successfully.
```

Other example commands for the platforms Waypoint supports in server install are
below. If you customized any of the values during install, substitute your own
values for the defaults.

Docker:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=docker -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -docker-runner-network=waypoint -server-tls-skip-verify
```

Kubernetes:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=kubernetes -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify
```

ECS:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=ecs -ecs-cluster=waypoint -ecs-region=<AWS_REGION> -server-addr=<AWS_NLB_NAME>.elb.<AWS_REGION>.amazonaws.com:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify
```

Nomad:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=nomad -server-addr=localhost:9701 -nomad-host-volume=waypoint-runner -server-tls-skip-verify
```

### Officially Supported Runner Platforms

Currently, Waypoint supports installing runners on the following platforms:

- Kubernetes
- Nomad
- Amazon ECS
- Docker

## Manually Running a Static Runner

The instructions below are only if you're installing additional static runners
manually. It's recommended that you utilize the the automated static runner installation if
possible.

The primary reason you'd need to install a new static runner manually is because the
environment it will run in can't be captured by the above automation.

Under normal circumstances, on-demand runners should be the mechanism used to provide
additional capacity within an installation, not additional static runners.

### Waypoint Runner Agent

To run a static runner, use the `waypoint runner agent` command:

```shell-session
$ WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR=<server addr> \
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS=true \
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN=<auth token> \
  waypoint runner agent


» Runner configuration:
  Server address: waypoint.example.com:9701

» Runner logs:

...
```

The environment variables specify how to connect to the server:

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR` should be the address to the Waypoint server
  that the runner can reach. The port should be for the gRPC API, and
  is typically 9701.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS` should be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") if
  the server is listening on TLS.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY` should be set to a truthy value
  (e.g. "1") if the TLS cert is invalid and can be safely ignored,
  such as in a development environment.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` should be an [auth token](/waypoint/docs/server/auth)
  the runner can use to communicate to the server. You can generate a new
  auth token using `waypoint user token`.

If the runner process remains running and doesn't show any errors, the
runner is now registered with the server and can now be used.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/runner/run-manual.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Additional Static Runners
description: |-
  The `waypoint install` command installs and manages a single Waypoint static
  runner. Additional static runners can be installed using `waypoint runner install` or
  mannualy.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Additional Runners

With self managed Waypoint servers, the `waypoint install` command installs and
manages a single Waypoint static runner.

Additional static runners can be added using [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install), which automates the process of creating
resources in Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker to execute a static runner.

In the case that none of these work for you, you can configure a static runner manually as
well.

## Installing a Static Runner Automatically

Waypoint supports deploying a static runner to multiple platforms with one command.
Depending on the platform, different configurations can be provided to control
how the runner is deployed in a platform. By default, the
server will adopt the static runner and create a new runner profile for it after it
reports to the server.

To install a static runner, use the [`waypoint runner install`](/waypoint/commands/runner-install)
command. Below is an example of using that command to install a Waypoint static runner to
Docker:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=docker -docker-runner-network=waypoint -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify=true
✓ Connecting to: waypoint-server:9701
✓ Runner 01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 installed successfully
✓ Runner profile docker-01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 created successfully.
✓ Waypoint runner installed and started!
✓ Runner detected by server
✓ Runner 01G5F2R0EKY0J8WW4W8HRGZVN1 adopted successfully.
```

Other example commands for the platforms Waypoint supports in server install are
below. If you customized any of the values during install, substitute your own
values for the defaults.

Docker:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=docker -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -docker-runner-network=waypoint -server-tls-skip-verify
```

Kubernetes:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=kubernetes -server-addr=waypoint-server:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify
```

ECS:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=ecs -ecs-cluster=waypoint -ecs-region=<AWS_REGION> -server-addr=<AWS_NLB_NAME>.elb.<AWS_REGION>.amazonaws.com:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify
```

Nomad:

```shell-session
$ waypoint runner install -platform=nomad -server-addr=localhost:9701 -nomad-host-volume=waypoint-runner -server-tls-skip-verify
```

### Officially Supported Runner Platforms

Currently, Waypoint supports installing runners on the following platforms:

- Kubernetes
- Nomad
- Amazon ECS
- Docker

## Manually Running a Static Runner

The instructions below are only if you're installing additional static runners
manually. It's recommended that you utilize the the automated static runner installation if
possible.

The primary reason you'd need to install a new static runner manually is because the
environment it will run in can't be captured by the above automation.

Under normal circumstances, on-demand runners should be the mechanism used to provide
additional capacity within an installation, not additional static runners.

### Waypoint Runner Agent

To run a static runner, use the `waypoint runner agent` command:

```shell-session
$ WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR=<server addr> \
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS=true \
  WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN=<auth token> \
  waypoint runner agent


» Runner configuration:
  Server address: waypoint.example.com:9701

» Runner logs:

...
```

The environment variables specify how to connect to the server:

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR` should be the address to the Waypoint server
  that the runner can reach. The port should be for the gRPC API, and
  is typically 9701.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS` should be set to a truthy value (e.g. "1") if
  the server is listening on TLS.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY` should be set to a truthy value
  (e.g. "1") if the TLS cert is invalid and can be safely ignored,
  such as in a development environment.

- `WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN` should be an [auth token](/waypoint/docs/server/auth)
  the runner can use to communicate to the server. You can generate a new
  auth token using `waypoint user token`.

If the runner process remains running and doesn't show any errors, the
runner is now registered with the server and can now be used.
