website/content/docs/app-config/dynamic.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Dynamic Values - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, and more. As the values change, Waypoint will automatically update your deployments and restart your application.
---

# Dynamic, Synced Configuration

Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems
such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store,
and more. These are known as _dynamic configuration values_. As the values change,
Waypoint will automatically update your deployments and restart your application.

Dynamic values make it easy to utilize external configuration stores
and the functionality they provide, such as automatic credential rotation
in systems such as Vault or Amazon Parameter Store.

This functionality requires the [Waypoint entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint).

-> **Basic application configuration knowledge required.** This
page assumes you know the basics of how to
[set static application configuration](/docs/app-config). This page will
not thoroughly explain the config setting CLI or `waypoint.hcl` stanzas.

## Configuration Sources

The following is a list of currently available configuration sources
and their associated documentation:

- [Terraform Cloud](/plugins/terraform-cloud#terraform-cloud-configsourcer) -
  Read Terraform state outputs from Terraform Cloud.
- [Kubernetes](/plugins/kubernetes#kubernetes-configsourcer) - Read values from
  ConfigMaps and Secrets.
- [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) - Read values from Vault secrets,
  including dynamic secrets such as database credentials.
- [AWS SSM](/plugins/aws-ssm#aws-ssm-configsourcer) - Read configuration values
  from AWS SSM Parameter Store.

-> **Custom configuration source plugins are coming soon.** The groundwork for
this was set in Waypoint 0.2.0 and a future release will enable custom configuration
source plugins.

## Setting Dynamic Values via `waypoint.hcl`

Dynamic configuration values are set in the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the `dynamic` function within the same `config` stanza as
static configurations. This specifies that a configuration value is
synced with an external system dynamically.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = dynamic("kubernetes", {
      name = "my-config-map" # ConfigMap name
      key  = "port"
    })
  }
}
```

The example above syncs the `PORT` environment variable with the "port"
key in the "my-config-map" Kubernetes ConfigMap. The "sync" actively watches
the defined source, updates the environment variable whenever the value
changes, and [restarts your application](/docs/app-config#application-restart-behavior).

The `dynamic` function has the following signature:

```
dynamic(SOURCE, PARAMS)
```

The `SOURCE` parameter is a string specifying the config source to sync
with and `PARAMS` is a map of parameters for that config source. The set
of parameters is dependent on the source being used. The list of sources
supported is in the [Configuration Sources section](#configuration-sources).

## Unsetting Dynamic Values

To unset a dynamic configuration value, delete it from the `waypoint.hcl`
file and then use the CLI to set it to an empty string as shown below.
Deleting the key from the Waypoint file and [syncing](/docs/app-config#configuration-syncing)
it will not be enough.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set PORT=
```

## Source Settings

Configuration sources sometimes support global settings for their behavior or
require global settings to be set for them to function at all.
For example, [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) has some global
settings around how to authenticate. Without setting these, Vault configurations
in applications will not work. These _source settings_ are set at the server
level and used by all `dynamic` calls.

To set configuration source settings, the [`waypoint config source-set`](/commands/config-source-set) CLI command is used:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config source-set -type=vault -config="auth=aws"
```

The documentation for the source settings available to a configuration source
are alongside their parameters in the plugin documentation.

### Deleting Configuration Source Settings

To unset the configuration specify the `-delete` flag.

## Debugging Dynamic Configuration

If a configuration value is not available (the environment variable is not
set or the value is not what you expect), then the best debugging tool
is [`waypoint logs`](/commands/logs). The logs command will show entrypoint logs where
you will see any errors related to configuration syncing.

The [`waypoint logs`](/commands/logs) output below is from an application deployed with
Waypoint using Kubernetes ConfigMaps but deployed within a Nomad cluster. The
lines have been purposely shortened slightly to improve readability on the
website.

```shell-session
$ waypoint logs
7PMDER: [WARN]  entrypoint.config.watcher: error reading configuration values, all will be dropped: source=kubernetes
err="unable to load in-cluster configuration, KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST and KUBERNETES_SERVICE_PORT must be defined"
7PMDER: [INFO]  entrypoint.child: starting child process: args=[/usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh, node, app.js]
cmd=/usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh
7PMDER: Example app listening on port 3000!
```

You can see the first line has an error reading configuration value. If
you keep scrolling right, you can see the `source` is `kubernetes` and the
`err` is shown. In this case, it's telling us that it couldn't load any
in-cluster configuration. Upon thinking about this, we can realize that
we didn't deploy to a Kubernetes cluster so this error makes sense, and perhaps
we need to do something else to enable out-of-cluster authentication.

To iterate on configuration, change the `waypoint.hcl` file and run
`waypoint config sync`. This allows you to change configuration without
doing a full redeploy.

### Listing Environment Variables

If you don't see any errors in the log, it may be possible the envirnment
variables are set correctly. To verify that environment variables are
set, open a shell with [`waypoint exec`](/commands/exec) and run `env`. This command will
list the environment variables that are available to your application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint exec /bin/sh
# env
NODE_VERSION=13.14.0
HOSTNAME=55882281dde1
YARN_VERSION=1.22.4
PORT=3000
HOME=/root
TERM=xterm-256color
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
PWD=/usr/src/app
```

-> **Note: the availability of `/bin/sh` or `env` is dependent on your application.**
Most deployments support these tools but if your application is built
using a base Docker image or some other mechanism that doesn't include these,
then it is possible they are not there.

Commit message:

docs: Clarify config source-set -delete

website/content/docs/app-config/dynamic.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Dynamic Values - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, and more. As the values change, Waypoint will automatically update your deployments and restart your application.
---

# Dynamic, Synced Configuration

Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems
such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store,
and more. These are known as _dynamic configuration values_. As the values change,
Waypoint will automatically update your deployments and restart your application.

Dynamic values make it easy to utilize external configuration stores
and the functionality they provide, such as automatic credential rotation
in systems such as Vault or Amazon Parameter Store.

This functionality requires the [Waypoint entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint).

-> **Basic application configuration knowledge required.** This
page assumes you know the basics of how to
[set static application configuration](/docs/app-config). This page will
not thoroughly explain the config setting CLI or `waypoint.hcl` stanzas.

## Configuration Sources

The following is a list of currently available configuration sources
and their associated documentation:

- [Terraform Cloud](/plugins/terraform-cloud#terraform-cloud-configsourcer) -
  Read Terraform state outputs from Terraform Cloud.
- [Kubernetes](/plugins/kubernetes#kubernetes-configsourcer) - Read values from
  ConfigMaps and Secrets.
- [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) - Read values from Vault secrets,
  including dynamic secrets such as database credentials.
- [AWS SSM](/plugins/aws-ssm#aws-ssm-configsourcer) - Read configuration values
  from AWS SSM Parameter Store.

-> **Custom configuration source plugins are coming soon.** The groundwork for
this was set in Waypoint 0.2.0 and a future release will enable custom configuration
source plugins.

## Setting Dynamic Values via `waypoint.hcl`

Dynamic configuration values are set in the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the `dynamic` function within the same `config` stanza as
static configurations. This specifies that a configuration value is
synced with an external system dynamically.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = dynamic("kubernetes", {
      name = "my-config-map" # ConfigMap name
      key  = "port"
    })
  }
}
```

The example above syncs the `PORT` environment variable with the "port"
key in the "my-config-map" Kubernetes ConfigMap. The "sync" actively watches
the defined source, updates the environment variable whenever the value
changes, and [restarts your application](/docs/app-config#application-restart-behavior).

The `dynamic` function has the following signature:

```
dynamic(SOURCE, PARAMS)
```

The `SOURCE` parameter is a string specifying the config source to sync
with and `PARAMS` is a map of parameters for that config source. The set
of parameters is dependent on the source being used. The list of sources
supported is in the [Configuration Sources section](#configuration-sources).

## Unsetting Dynamic Values

To unset a dynamic configuration value, delete it from the `waypoint.hcl`
file and then use the CLI to set it to an empty string as shown below.
Deleting the key from the Waypoint file and [syncing](/docs/app-config#configuration-syncing)
it will not be enough.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set PORT=
```

## Source Settings

Configuration sources sometimes support global settings for their behavior or
require global settings to be set for them to function at all.
For example, [Vault](/plugins/vault#vault-configsourcer) has some global
settings around how to authenticate. Without setting these, Vault configurations
in applications will not work. These _source settings_ are set at the server
level and used by all `dynamic` calls.

To set configuration source settings, the [`waypoint config source-set`](/commands/config-source-set) CLI command is used:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config source-set -type=vault -config="auth=aws"
```

The documentation for the source settings available to a configuration source
are alongside their parameters in the plugin documentation.

### Deleting Configuration Source Settings

To unset the configuration after it has been set with `waypoint config source-set`, specify the `-delete` flag.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config source-set -type=vault -delete
```

## Debugging Dynamic Configuration

If a configuration value is not available (the environment variable is not
set or the value is not what you expect), then the best debugging tool
is [`waypoint logs`](/commands/logs). The logs command will show entrypoint logs where
you will see any errors related to configuration syncing.

The [`waypoint logs`](/commands/logs) output below is from an application deployed with
Waypoint using Kubernetes ConfigMaps but deployed within a Nomad cluster. The
lines have been purposely shortened slightly to improve readability on the
website.

```shell-session
$ waypoint logs
7PMDER: [WARN]  entrypoint.config.watcher: error reading configuration values, all will be dropped: source=kubernetes
err="unable to load in-cluster configuration, KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST and KUBERNETES_SERVICE_PORT must be defined"
7PMDER: [INFO]  entrypoint.child: starting child process: args=[/usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh, node, app.js]
cmd=/usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh
7PMDER: Example app listening on port 3000!
```

You can see the first line has an error reading configuration value. If
you keep scrolling right, you can see the `source` is `kubernetes` and the
`err` is shown. In this case, it's telling us that it couldn't load any
in-cluster configuration. Upon thinking about this, we can realize that
we didn't deploy to a Kubernetes cluster so this error makes sense, and perhaps
we need to do something else to enable out-of-cluster authentication.

To iterate on configuration, change the `waypoint.hcl` file and run
`waypoint config sync`. This allows you to change configuration without
doing a full redeploy.

### Listing Environment Variables

If you don't see any errors in the log, it may be possible the envirnment
variables are set correctly. To verify that environment variables are
set, open a shell with [`waypoint exec`](/commands/exec) and run `env`. This command will
list the environment variables that are available to your application.

```shell-session
$ waypoint exec /bin/sh
# env
NODE_VERSION=13.14.0
HOSTNAME=55882281dde1
YARN_VERSION=1.22.4
PORT=3000
HOME=/root
TERM=xterm-256color
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
PWD=/usr/src/app
```

-> **Note: the availability of `/bin/sh` or `env` is dependent on your application.**
Most deployments support these tools but if your application is built
using a base Docker image or some other mechanism that doesn't include these,
then it is possible they are not there.
