website/content/docs/app-config/files.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Files - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can write application configuration to files. This is useful for applications that expect their configuration at a certain path or in a certain format.
---

# Configuration Files

Waypoint can write application configuration to files. This is useful for
applications that expect their configuration at a certain path or in a certain
format. For example, you can write JSON, YAML, XML files for web frameworks
or other services.

## Writing a Configuration File

Application configuration file rendering must be configured in the
`waypoint.hcl` file in the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config).
The example below writes a file `config/database.yml` relative to your
deployed and running application:

```hcl
config {
  file = {
    "config/database.yml" = templatefile("${path.project}/database.yml.tpl", {
      host = "db.service"
    })
  }
}
```

The template `database.yml.tpl` may look like this:

```yaml
production:
  host: ${host}
  username: myuser
  password: mypass
```

Notice that since we're using the `templatefile` function, we can template
the file by using variables such as `${host}` within our file. In this example,
we set host to a static string, but the variable may also reference
[internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) which allow files to be built
up of dynamic values as well. When a value
changes at runtime, Waypoint will re-render your configuration file and
send a signal to your application.

## File Change Signal

If the input variables to a configuration file change at runtime, Waypoint
will rerender the file and signal your application. By default, Waypoint will
send the signal `SIGUSR2`. Waypoint expects your application to respond to this
signal by reloading the configuration.

The file change signal can be customized using the
[`file_change_signal` field](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#file_change_signal)
in the `config` stanza. For example, you `SIGHUP` is a common signal
for reloading configuration. You could configure your application to
receive this signal:

```hcl
config {
  file_change_signal = "HUP"
}
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/app-config/files.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Files - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can write application configuration to files. This is useful for applications that expect their configuration at a certain path or in a certain format.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Configuration Files

Waypoint can write application configuration to files. This is useful for
applications that expect their configuration at a certain path or in a certain
format. For example, you can write JSON, YAML, XML files for web frameworks
or other services.

## Writing a Configuration File

Application configuration file rendering must be configured in the
`waypoint.hcl` file in the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config).
The example below writes a file `config/database.yml` relative to your
deployed and running application:

```hcl
config {
  file = {
    "config/database.yml" = templatefile("${path.project}/database.yml.tpl", {
      host = "db.service"
    })
  }
}
```

The template `database.yml.tpl` may look like this:

```yaml
production:
  host: ${host}
  username: myuser
  password: mypass
```

Notice that since we're using the `templatefile` function, we can template
the file by using variables such as `${host}` within our file. In this example,
we set host to a static string, but the variable may also reference
[internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) which allow files to be built
up of dynamic values as well. When a value
changes at runtime, Waypoint will re-render your configuration file and
send a signal to your application.

## File Change Signal

If the input variables to a configuration file change at runtime, Waypoint
will rerender the file and signal your application. By default, Waypoint will
send the signal `SIGUSR2`. Waypoint expects your application to respond to this
signal by reloading the configuration.

The file change signal can be customized using the
[`file_change_signal` field](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#file_change_signal)
in the `config` stanza. For example, you `SIGHUP` is a common signal
for reloading configuration. You could configure your application to
receive this signal:

```hcl
config {
  file_change_signal = "HUP"
}
```
