website/content/docs/app-config/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can configure your application by setting environment variables and writing files. Both the environment variables and files can use values sourced from external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, etc.
---

# Application Configuration

Waypoint can configure your application by setting environment variables
and writing files. Both the environment variables and files can use
values sourced from external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps,
HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, etc.

Application configuration can be set two ways. First, it may be set using the
[`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config) in the `waypoint.hcl` file. You
may also use the [`waypoint config`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) CLI command, but this
can only be used for environment variables.

When configuration values change, Waypoint will automatically
[restart your application](#application-restart-behavior).

This functionality requires the [Waypoint entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint).

## Setting Configuration via the CLI

Static configuration are values that are set directly using [`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set).
They are "static" because they are set with a predetermined value directly on the Waypoint
server.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set DATABASE_URL="postgresql://example.com:5432"
```

This will make the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable present with the
given value for all deployed applications. For already-deployed applications,
Waypoint will [restart running applications](#application-restart-behavior)
when configuration changes.

### Project Scope

[`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) will set variables by default scoped to the _project_.
This means that all applications within your project will have the environment
variable set.

### Application Scope

You may use the `-app` flag to scope a variable to a specific application.
For this scope, only a specific application in the project will have the
configuration set.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -app web PORT=8080
```

## Setting Configuration via `waypoint.hcl`

Configuration can also be set directly in the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config). The example below achieves
the same thing as the [`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) example in the [section above](/waypoint/docs/app-config#setting-configuration-via-the-cli).

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://example.com:5432"
  }
}
```

Configuration specified in the `waypoint.hcl` file has a number of benefits:

- The configuration is made available immediately during all lifecycle operations (such as [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up), [`waypoint deploy`](/waypoint/commands/deploy), etc.).

- The configuration is persisted as code and can be committed to version control.

- The configuration can make use of
  [functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions) and
  [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables) to compute the keys and values.

### Updating the Configuration of Existing Deployments

Changes to configuration within the `waypoint.hcl` file take effect
whenever a new deploy occurs (such as via a [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up) or [`waypoint deploy`](/waypoint/commands/deploy)).
Existing deployments can be updated without
a new deploy by using the [`waypoint config sync`](/waypoint/commands/config-sync) CLI command.

When configuration changes take effect, any changes will affect
_all deployments_ of that project or application. Practically, this
means if you change a configuration value in the `waypoint.hcl` file
and run [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up), the new deployment as well as any previous deployments
that are still running will be updated with the new configuration value.

### Project vs. Application Scope

The `config` stanza is valid at the project level and within `app`
stanzas. This can be used to specify whether a configuration is at the
project or application scope. You can also mix both together and they will be
merged. The example below will set `THEME` for all apps and set `PORT`
only for the "frontend" app.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    THEME = "rainbow"
  }
}

app "frontend" {
  config {
    env = {
      PORT = 8080
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

For conflicting keys, the app-scope value will be used. If in the above
example the `app`-scoped `config` set a `THEME` value, that value would
be used instead of the project-scoped value.

## Unsetting Configuration

To delete a configuration variable, use the CLI to set it to an empty string:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set DATABASE_URL=
```

This works for configuration set via the CLI as well as `waypoint.hcl`.
This also works for static as well as dynamic configuration values.

-> For configuration set using a `config` stanza in a `waypoint.hcl` file,
deleting the configuration will not currently unset the configuration. This
will be fixed in a future version.

## Syncing with External Systems

Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems
such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store,
and more. To learn more about this, see the documentation page on
[dynamic configuration values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic).

## Application Restart Behavior

Waypoint will automatically restart your running applications whenever
a configuration change is detected for that application. Waypoint restarts
your application with the following steps:

1. The `SIGTERM` signal is sent to your application process. This signal
   can be trapped to perform last minute cleanup and shutdown.

2. Waypoint will wait up to 30 seconds for your application to gracefully exit.

3. After 30 seconds, Waypoint will send the `SIGKILL` signal to your
   application process group. This will kill the application process as well
   as any subprocesses it may have started. This signal is not able to be trapped
   and your application will be killed immediately.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/app-config/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint can configure your application by setting environment variables and writing files. Both the environment variables and files can use values sourced from external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, etc.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Application Configuration

Waypoint can configure your application by setting environment variables
and writing files. Both the environment variables and files can use
values sourced from external systems such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps,
HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store, etc.

Application configuration can be set two ways. First, it may be set using the
[`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config) in the `waypoint.hcl` file. You
may also use the [`waypoint config`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) CLI command, but this
can only be used for environment variables.

When configuration values change, Waypoint will automatically
[restart your application](#application-restart-behavior).

This functionality requires the [Waypoint entrypoint](/waypoint/docs/entrypoint).

## Setting Configuration via the CLI

Static configuration are values that are set directly using [`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set).
They are "static" because they are set with a predetermined value directly on the Waypoint
server.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set DATABASE_URL="postgresql://example.com:5432"
```

This will make the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable present with the
given value for all deployed applications. For already-deployed applications,
Waypoint will [restart running applications](#application-restart-behavior)
when configuration changes.

### Project Scope

[`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) will set variables by default scoped to the _project_.
This means that all applications within your project will have the environment
variable set.

### Application Scope

You may use the `-app` flag to scope a variable to a specific application.
For this scope, only a specific application in the project will have the
configuration set.

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set -app web PORT=8080
```

## Setting Configuration via `waypoint.hcl`

Configuration can also be set directly in the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the [`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config). The example below achieves
the same thing as the [`waypoint config set`](/waypoint/commands/config-set) example in the [section above](/waypoint/docs/app-config#setting-configuration-via-the-cli).

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://example.com:5432"
  }
}
```

Configuration specified in the `waypoint.hcl` file has a number of benefits:

- The configuration is made available immediately during all lifecycle operations (such as [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up), [`waypoint deploy`](/waypoint/commands/deploy), etc.).

- The configuration is persisted as code and can be committed to version control.

- The configuration can make use of
  [functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions) and
  [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables) to compute the keys and values.

### Updating the Configuration of Existing Deployments

Changes to configuration within the `waypoint.hcl` file take effect
whenever a new deploy occurs (such as via a [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up) or [`waypoint deploy`](/waypoint/commands/deploy)).
Existing deployments can be updated without
a new deploy by using the [`waypoint config sync`](/waypoint/commands/config-sync) CLI command.

When configuration changes take effect, any changes will affect
_all deployments_ of that project or application. Practically, this
means if you change a configuration value in the `waypoint.hcl` file
and run [`waypoint up`](/waypoint/commands/up), the new deployment as well as any previous deployments
that are still running will be updated with the new configuration value.

### Project vs. Application Scope

The `config` stanza is valid at the project level and within `app`
stanzas. This can be used to specify whether a configuration is at the
project or application scope. You can also mix both together and they will be
merged. The example below will set `THEME` for all apps and set `PORT`
only for the "frontend" app.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    THEME = "rainbow"
  }
}

app "frontend" {
  config {
    env = {
      PORT = 8080
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

For conflicting keys, the app-scope value will be used. If in the above
example the `app`-scoped `config` set a `THEME` value, that value would
be used instead of the project-scoped value.

## Unsetting Configuration

To delete a configuration variable, use the CLI to set it to an empty string:

```shell-session
$ waypoint config set DATABASE_URL=
```

This works for configuration set via the CLI as well as `waypoint.hcl`.
This also works for static as well as dynamic configuration values.

-> For configuration set using a `config` stanza in a `waypoint.hcl` file,
deleting the configuration will not currently unset the configuration. This
will be fixed in a future version.

## Syncing with External Systems

Waypoint can sync application configuration values with external systems
such as Kubernetes ConfigMaps, HashiCorp Vault, Amazon Parameter Store,
and more. To learn more about this, see the documentation page on
[dynamic configuration values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic).

## Application Restart Behavior

Waypoint will automatically restart your running applications whenever
a configuration change is detected for that application. Waypoint restarts
your application with the following steps:

1. The `SIGTERM` signal is sent to your application process. This signal
   can be trapped to perform last minute cleanup and shutdown.

2. Waypoint will wait up to 30 seconds for your application to gracefully exit.

3. After 30 seconds, Waypoint will send the `SIGKILL` signal to your
   application process group. This will kill the application process as well
   as any subprocesses it may have started. This signal is not able to be trapped
   and your application will be killed immediately.
