website/content/docs/app-config/internal.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Internal Values - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Internal values are static or dynamic configuration values that can be referenced by environment variables or files to compose values.
---

# Internal Values

Internal values are static or [dynamic](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic)
configuration values that can be referenced by environment variables,
[files](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files), or other internal variables to compose
values. An example common usecase is building a database connection string
which requires a database host, username, password, etc. that may come from difference sources.

## Using Internal Values

Internal values are declared in the `waypoint.hcl` file in the
[`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config). The example below configures
an internal value that reads a database username and host from a Terraform
output and then combines them in an environment variable:

```hcl
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
      organization = "mycorp"
      workspace = "databases"
      output = "db_host"
    })

    "db_user" = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
      organization = "mycorp"
      workspace = "databases"
      output = "db_user"
    })
  }

  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "${config.internal.db_user}@${config.internal.db_host}"
  }
}
```

The internal values `db_host` and `db_user` are never exposed directly
to the application. Instead, only the combined value created in the
`DB_ADDR` env var is exposed.

If the dynamic value of the database host or user changes, the environment
variable will subsequently be updated and the application will be restarted
using standard application restart behavior.

## Caveats

Configsourcer plugins must return string type values to be used as internal values.
With the terraform-cloud configsourcer, always specify an output, and only use outputs
that of the type string.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/app-config/internal.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Internal Values - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Internal values are static or dynamic configuration values that can be referenced by environment variables or files to compose values.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Internal Values

Internal values are static or [dynamic](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic)
configuration values that can be referenced by environment variables,
[files](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files), or other internal variables to compose
values. An example common usecase is building a database connection string
which requires a database host, username, password, etc. that may come from difference sources.

## Using Internal Values

Internal values are declared in the `waypoint.hcl` file in the
[`config` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config). The example below configures
an internal value that reads a database username and host from a Terraform
output and then combines them in an environment variable:

```hcl
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
      organization = "mycorp"
      workspace = "databases"
      output = "db_host"
    })

    "db_user" = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
      organization = "mycorp"
      workspace = "databases"
      output = "db_user"
    })
  }

  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "${config.internal.db_user}@${config.internal.db_host}"
  }
}
```

The internal values `db_host` and `db_user` are never exposed directly
to the application. Instead, only the combined value created in the
`DB_ADDR` env var is exposed.

If the dynamic value of the database host or user changes, the environment
variable will subsequently be updated and the application will be restarted
using standard application restart behavior.

## Caveats

Configsourcer plugins must return string type values to be used as internal values.
With the terraform-cloud configsourcer, always specify an output, and only use outputs
that of the type string.
