website/content/docs/app-config/scope.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Workspace and Label Scoping - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint allows you to set different configuration values for specific workspaces or labels. For example, you might set a database URL for staging different from production using workspaces, or you might use labels to set different addresses for different regions or any other metadata.
---

# Workspace and Label Scoping

Waypoint allows you to set different configuration values for specific
[workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) or [labels](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/labels).
For example, you might set a database URL for staging different from production
using workspaces, or you might use labels to set different addresses for
different regions or any other metadata.

By default, Waypoint application configuration is exposed to the application
in every scenario. By using the additional scoping constraints described in
this document, you can limit what configuration values are set in what
situations.

## Workspace Scoping

You can use workspace scoping to expose configuration only in specific,
exact [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces):

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  workspace "production" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

In this example, the `DB_ADDR` environment variable will be set to
"prod.example.com" only in the "production" workspace. Within the `workspace`
stanza, you can use all available configuration parameters such as `env`,
`internal`, `files`, etc.

-> **Note:** Values aren't inherited from the global scope. For example, you
cannot set an [internal variable](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) at the root
and access it within the `workspace` stanza. You must redeclare any internal
variables used.

### Non-Exact Workspace Matching

The `workspace` stanza does not support non-exact workspace matching. However,
you can use the `label` stanza documented below to do this. All workspaces
automatically are exposed via the `waypoint/workspace` label and label
selectors support
[Consul style matching operators](/consul/api-docs/features/filtering#matching-operators)
such as `contains`, `matches`, etc. For example, you could match all workspaces
that contain "dev" this way:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  label "waypoint/workspace contains \"dev\"" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

## Label Scoping

You can use the `label` stanza to expose configuration only in specific
label contexts:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  label "env == production and region == us-east-1" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

This will only expose the "prod.example.com" value for the `DB_ADDR`
environment variable if the labels of the deployment match the given
selector.

~> **Warning!** This is an advanced use case. Most cases can be satisfied
using the `workspace` stanza which is much simpler to understand and debug.
Under the covers, the `workspace` stanza is functionally equivalent to a
label selector of `waypoint/workspace == <name>`.

## Inheritance

Based on the structural syntax of workspace and label selectors, it
may appear that there is some ability to reference or inherit "parent"
configuration values, such as [internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal).
**This is not possible.**

For example, given the following configuration:

```hcl
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = "example.com"
  }

  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev@${config.internal.db_host}"
  }

  workspace "production" {
    # THIS DOES NOT WORK!
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod@${config.internal.db_host}"
    }
  }
}
```

This does not work. The environment variable value inside the `workspace`
stanza does not have access to the internal variables in the root `config`
stanza. Any `workspace` or `label` stanzas must redeclare internal variables
that are commonly used.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/app-config/scope.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Workspace and Label Scoping - Application Configuration
description: |-
  Waypoint allows you to set different configuration values for specific workspaces or labels. For example, you might set a database URL for staging different from production using workspaces, or you might use labels to set different addresses for different regions or any other metadata.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Workspace and Label Scoping

Waypoint allows you to set different configuration values for specific
[workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) or [labels](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/labels).
For example, you might set a database URL for staging different from production
using workspaces, or you might use labels to set different addresses for
different regions or any other metadata.

By default, Waypoint application configuration is exposed to the application
in every scenario. By using the additional scoping constraints described in
this document, you can limit what configuration values are set in what
situations.

## Workspace Scoping

You can use workspace scoping to expose configuration only in specific,
exact [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces):

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  workspace "production" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

In this example, the `DB_ADDR` environment variable will be set to
"prod.example.com" only in the "production" workspace. Within the `workspace`
stanza, you can use all available configuration parameters such as `env`,
`internal`, `files`, etc.

-> **Note:** Values aren't inherited from the global scope. For example, you
cannot set an [internal variable](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) at the root
and access it within the `workspace` stanza. You must redeclare any internal
variables used.

### Non-Exact Workspace Matching

The `workspace` stanza does not support non-exact workspace matching. However,
you can use the `label` stanza documented below to do this. All workspaces
automatically are exposed via the `waypoint/workspace` label and label
selectors support
[Consul style matching operators](/consul/api-docs/features/filtering#matching-operators)
such as `contains`, `matches`, etc. For example, you could match all workspaces
that contain "dev" this way:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  label "waypoint/workspace contains \"dev\"" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

## Label Scoping

You can use the `label` stanza to expose configuration only in specific
label contexts:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev.example.com"
  }

  label "env == production and region == us-east-1" {
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod.example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

This will only expose the "prod.example.com" value for the `DB_ADDR`
environment variable if the labels of the deployment match the given
selector.

~> **Warning!** This is an advanced use case. Most cases can be satisfied
using the `workspace` stanza which is much simpler to understand and debug.
Under the covers, the `workspace` stanza is functionally equivalent to a
label selector of `waypoint/workspace == <name>`.

## Inheritance

Based on the structural syntax of workspace and label selectors, it
may appear that there is some ability to reference or inherit "parent"
configuration values, such as [internal values](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal).
**This is not possible.**

For example, given the following configuration:

```hcl
config {
  internal = {
    "db_host" = "example.com"
  }

  env = {
    "DB_ADDR" = "dev@${config.internal.db_host}"
  }

  workspace "production" {
    # THIS DOES NOT WORK!
    env = {
      "DB_ADDR" = "prod@${config.internal.db_host}"
    }
  }
}
```

This does not work. The environment variable value inside the `workspace`
stanza does not have access to the internal variables in the root `config`
stanza. Any `workspace` or `label` stanzas must redeclare internal variables
that are commonly used.
