website/content/commands/artifact-list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Artifact list'
sidebar_title: 'artifact list'
description: 'List pushed artifacts.'
---

# Waypoint Artifact list

Command: `waypoint artifact list`

List pushed artifacts.

@include "commands/artifact-list_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint artifact list [options]`

Lists the artifacts that are pushed to a registry. This does not
list the artifacts that are just part of local builds.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-workspace-all` - List builds in all workspaces for this project and application. The default is false.
- `-verbose` (`-V`) - Display more details about each deployment. The default is false.
- `-json` - Output the deployment information as JSON. The default is false.
- `-long-ids` - Show long identifiers rather than sequence numbers. The default is false.

#### Filter Options

- `-order-by=<string>` - Order the values by which field. One possible value from: start-time, complete-time.
- `-desc` - Sort the values in descending order. The default is false.
- `-limit=<uint>` - How many values to show.

@include "commands/artifact-list_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/artifact-list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Artifact list'
sidebar_title: 'artifact list'
description: 'List pushed artifacts.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Artifact list

Command: `waypoint artifact list`

List pushed artifacts.

@include "commands/artifact-list_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint artifact list [options]`

Lists the artifacts that are pushed to a registry. This does not
list the artifacts that are just part of local builds.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-workspace-all` - List builds in all workspaces for this project and application. The default is false.
- `-verbose` (`-V`) - Display more details about each deployment. The default is false.
- `-json` - Output the deployment information as JSON. The default is false.
- `-long-ids` - Show long identifiers rather than sequence numbers. The default is false.

#### Filter Options

- `-order-by=<string>` - Order the values by which field. One possible value from: start-time, complete-time.
- `-desc` - Sort the values in descending order. The default is false.
- `-limit=<uint>` - How many values to show.

@include "commands/artifact-list_more.mdx"
