website/content/commands/auth-method-set-oidc.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Auth-method set oidc'
sidebar_title: 'auth-method set oidc'
description: 'Configure an OIDC auth method'
---

# Waypoint Auth-method set oidc

Command: `waypoint auth-method set oidc`

Configure an OIDC auth method

@include "commands/auth-method-set-oidc_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint auth-method set oidc [options] NAME`

Configure an OIDC auth method.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-display-name=<string>` - Display name for the UI. Optional.
- `-description=<string>` - Short description of this auth method. Optional.
- `-access-selector=<string>` - Selector expression to control access based on claims. See docs for more details.

#### OIDC Auth Method Options

- `-client-id=<string>` - The OAuth 2.0 Client Identifier.
- `-client-secret=<string>` - The client secret corresponding with the client ID.
- `-claim-scope=<string>` - The optional claims scope requested. May be specified multiple times.
- `-signing-algorithm=<string>` - The allowed signing algorithm. May be specified multiple times.
- `-issuer=<string>` - Discovery URL of the OIDC provider that implements the .well-known/openid-configuration metadata endpoint.
- `-issuer-ca-pem=<string>` - PEM-encoded certificates for connecting to the issuer. May be specified multiple times.
- `-allowed-redirect-uri=<string>` - Allowed URI for auth redirection. This automatically has localhost (for CLI auth) and the server address configured. If you have additional external addresses, you can specify them here. May be specified multiple times.
- `-claim-mapping=<key=value>` - Mapping of a claim to a variable value for the access selector. This can be specified multiple times. Example value: 'http://example.com/key=key'.
- `-list-claim-mapping=<key=value>` - Same as claim-mapping but for list values. This can be repeated multiple times.

@include "commands/auth-method-set-oidc_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/auth-method-set-oidc.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Auth-method set oidc'
sidebar_title: 'auth-method set oidc'
description: 'Configure an OIDC auth method'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Auth-method set oidc

Command: `waypoint auth-method set oidc`

Configure an OIDC auth method

@include "commands/auth-method-set-oidc_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint auth-method set oidc [options] NAME`

Configure an OIDC auth method.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-display-name=<string>` - Display name for the UI. Optional.
- `-description=<string>` - Short description of this auth method. Optional.
- `-access-selector=<string>` - Selector expression to control access based on claims. See docs for more details.

#### OIDC Auth Method Options

- `-client-id=<string>` - The OAuth 2.0 Client Identifier.
- `-client-secret=<string>` - The client secret corresponding with the client ID.
- `-claim-scope=<string>` - The optional claims scope requested. May be specified multiple times.
- `-signing-algorithm=<string>` - The allowed signing algorithm. May be specified multiple times.
- `-issuer=<string>` - Discovery URL of the OIDC provider that implements the .well-known/openid-configuration metadata endpoint.
- `-issuer-ca-pem=<string>` - PEM-encoded certificates for connecting to the issuer. May be specified multiple times.
- `-allowed-redirect-uri=<string>` - Allowed URI for auth redirection. This automatically has localhost (for CLI auth) and the server address configured. If you have additional external addresses, you can specify them here. May be specified multiple times.
- `-claim-mapping=<key=value>` - Mapping of a claim to a variable value for the access selector. This can be specified multiple times. Example value: 'http://example.com/key=key'.
- `-list-claim-mapping=<key=value>` - Same as claim-mapping but for list values. This can be repeated multiple times.

@include "commands/auth-method-set-oidc_more.mdx"
