website/content/commands/config-source-set.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config source-set'
sidebar_title: 'config source-set'
description: 'Set the configuration for a dynamic source plugin'
---

# Waypoint Config source-set

Command: `waypoint config source-set`

Set the configuration for a dynamic source plugin

@include "commands/config-source-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config source-set [options]`

Set the configuration for a dynamic configuration source plugin.

This does not add a dynamic configuration variable to your application.
This command is for configuring the plugin that is used to fetch dynamic
configurations globally. For example, configuring authentication information
or server addresses and so on.

To use this command, you should specify a "-type" flag along with one or more
"-config" values. Please see the documentation for the config source type
you're configuring for details on what configuration fields are available.

This command overrides all configuration already set for a configuration
source plugin. When modifying an existing configuration, all desired
"-config" flags will need to be set each time the command is ran.

Configuration for this command is global. The "-app", "-project", and
"-workspace" flags are ignored on this command.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-type=<string>` - Dynamic source type to configure, such as 'vault'.
- `-config=<key=value>` - Configuration for the dynamic source type. This may be repeated. The fields available are dependent on the dynamic source type, so please check the documentation for that specific type for more information.
- `-delete` - Delete the configuration for this source type. If this is set then the -config flag is ignored. The default is false.
- `-scope=<string>` - The scope for this configuration source. The configuration source will only appear within this scope. This can be one of 'global', 'project', or 'app'. The default is global.

@include "commands/config-source-set_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/config-source-set.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config source-set'
sidebar_title: 'config source-set'
description: 'Set the configuration for a dynamic source plugin'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Config source-set

Command: `waypoint config source-set`

Set the configuration for a dynamic source plugin

@include "commands/config-source-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config source-set [options]`

Set the configuration for a dynamic configuration source plugin.

This does not add a dynamic configuration variable to your application.
This command is for configuring the plugin that is used to fetch dynamic
configurations globally. For example, configuring authentication information
or server addresses and so on.

To use this command, you should specify a "-type" flag along with one or more
"-config" values. Please see the documentation for the config source type
you're configuring for details on what configuration fields are available.

This command overrides all configuration already set for a configuration
source plugin. When modifying an existing configuration, all desired
"-config" flags will need to be set each time the command is ran.

Configuration for this command is global. The "-app", "-project", and
"-workspace" flags are ignored on this command.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-type=<string>` - Dynamic source type to configure, such as 'vault'.
- `-config=<key=value>` - Configuration for the dynamic source type. This may be repeated. The fields available are dependent on the dynamic source type, so please check the documentation for that specific type for more information.
- `-delete` - Delete the configuration for this source type. If this is set then the -config flag is ignored. The default is false.
- `-scope=<string>` - The scope for this configuration source. The configuration source will only appear within this scope. This can be one of 'global', 'project', or 'app'. The default is global.

@include "commands/config-source-set_more.mdx"
