website/content/commands/config-source-get.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config source-get'
sidebar_title: 'config source-get'
description: 'Get the configuration for a dynamic source plugin'
---

# Waypoint Config source-get

Command: `waypoint config source-get`

Get the configuration for a dynamic source plugin

@include "commands/config-source-get_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config source-get [options]`

Get the configuration for a dynamic configuration source plugin.

This does not list the dynamic configuration variables for an application.
This command is for configuring the plugin that is used to fetch dynamic
configurations globally for the server.

To use this command, you must specify a "-type" flag.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-type=<string>` - Dynamic source type to look up, such as 'vault'.

@include "commands/config-source-get_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Move global config notice to cli

website/content/commands/config-source-get.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config source-get'
sidebar_title: 'config source-get'
description: 'Get the configuration for a dynamic source plugin'
---

# Waypoint Config source-get

Command: `waypoint config source-get`

Get the configuration for a dynamic source plugin

@include "commands/config-source-get_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config source-get [options]`

Get the configuration for a dynamic configuration source plugin.

This does not list the dynamic configuration variables for an application.
This command is for configuring the plugin that is used to fetch dynamic
configurations globally for the server.

To use this command, you must specify a "-type" flag.

Configuration for this command is global. The "-app", "-project", and
"-workspace" flags are ignored on this command.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-type=<string>` - Dynamic source type to look up, such as 'vault'.

@include "commands/config-source-get_more.mdx"
