website/content/commands/config-set.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config set'
sidebar_title: 'config set'
description: 'Set a config variable.'
---

# Waypoint Config set

Command: `waypoint config set`

Set a config variable.

@include "commands/config-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config set <name>=<value>`

Set a config variable that will be available to deployments as an
environment variable.

This will scope the variable to the entire project by default.
Specify the "-project" flag to set a config variable for a specific project.
The "-project" flag is not required if scope is global or there is a local
waypoint.hcl file.

Specify the "-app" flag to set a config variable for a specific app.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-scope=<string>` - The scope for this configuration. The configuration will only appear within this scope. This can be one of 'global', 'project', or 'app'. The default is project.
- `-workspace-scope=<string>` - Specify that the configuration is only available within a specific workspace. This configuration will only be set for deployments or operations (if -runner is set) when the workspace matches this.
- `-label-scope=<string>` - If set, configuration will only be set if the deployment or operation (if -runner is set) has a matching label set.
- `-runner` - Expose this configuration on runners. This can be used to set things such as credentials to cloud platforms for remote runners. This configuration will not be exposed to deployed applications. If this is specified in the context of a project, this will apply only to runners operating on jobs for the specific project or application. The default is false.

@include "commands/config-set_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/config-set.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config set'
sidebar_title: 'config set'
description: 'Set a config variable.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Config set

Command: `waypoint config set`

Set a config variable.

@include "commands/config-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config set <name>=<value>`

Set a config variable that will be available to deployments as an
environment variable.

This will scope the variable to the entire project by default.
Specify the "-project" flag to set a config variable for a specific project.
The "-project" flag is not required if scope is global or there is a local
waypoint.hcl file.

Specify the "-app" flag to set a config variable for a specific app.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-scope=<string>` - The scope for this configuration. The configuration will only appear within this scope. This can be one of 'global', 'project', or 'app'. The default is project.
- `-workspace-scope=<string>` - Specify that the configuration is only available within a specific workspace. This configuration will only be set for deployments or operations (if -runner is set) when the workspace matches this.
- `-label-scope=<string>` - If set, configuration will only be set if the deployment or operation (if -runner is set) has a matching label set.
- `-runner` - Expose this configuration on runners. This can be used to set things such as credentials to cloud platforms for remote runners. This configuration will not be exposed to deployed applications. If this is specified in the context of a project, this will apply only to runners operating on jobs for the specific project or application. The default is false.

@include "commands/config-set_more.mdx"
