website/content/commands/config-get.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config get'
sidebar_title: 'config get'
description: 'Get config variables.'
---

# Waypoint Config get

Command: `waypoint config get`

Get config variables.

@include "commands/config-get_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config get [prefix]`

Retrieve and print all config variables previously configured that have
the given prefix. If no prefix is given, all variables are returned.

The output of this command depends on whether an exact application is
specified or not. If no app is specified with "-app", this will list
all POSSIBLE config vars that could be set for applications within the project.
It is the list of "possible" variables because some are dependent on the
application name, workspace, or labels.

By specifying the "-app" flag you can look at config variables that
would be resolved for a specific application. This will never show duplicate
variables and will show the full resolved list of variables that will be
set for a specific application. This will default to a workspace of "default,"
the current project, and empty labels.

To further simulate what config variables an application would receive,
you may specify the "-workspace" flag or the "-label" flag (repeatedly)
to set the label context.

The "-runner" flag can be specified to show the list of variables that
would be set for a runner. All of the above filtering applies to runners,
as well.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-json` - Output in JSON. The default is false.
- `-raw` - Output in key=val. The default is false.
- `-runner` - Show configuration that is set on runners. This will not show any configuration that is set on any applications. This only includes configuration set with the -runner flag. The default is false.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.

@include "commands/config-get_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/config-get.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config get'
sidebar_title: 'config get'
description: 'Get config variables.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Config get

Command: `waypoint config get`

Get config variables.

@include "commands/config-get_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint config get [prefix]`

Retrieve and print all config variables previously configured that have
the given prefix. If no prefix is given, all variables are returned.

The output of this command depends on whether an exact application is
specified or not. If no app is specified with "-app", this will list
all POSSIBLE config vars that could be set for applications within the project.
It is the list of "possible" variables because some are dependent on the
application name, workspace, or labels.

By specifying the "-app" flag you can look at config variables that
would be resolved for a specific application. This will never show duplicate
variables and will show the full resolved list of variables that will be
set for a specific application. This will default to a workspace of "default,"
the current project, and empty labels.

To further simulate what config variables an application would receive,
you may specify the "-workspace" flag or the "-label" flag (repeatedly)
to set the label context.

The "-runner" flag can be specified to show the list of variables that
would be set for a runner. All of the above filtering applies to runners,
as well.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-json` - Output in JSON. The default is false.
- `-raw` - Output in key=val. The default is false.
- `-runner` - Show configuration that is set on runners. This will not show any configuration that is set on any applications. This only includes configuration set with the -runner flag. The default is false.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.

@include "commands/config-get_more.mdx"
