website/content/commands/context-create.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Context create'
sidebar_title: 'context create'
description: 'Create a context.'
---

# Waypoint Context create

Command: `waypoint context create`

Create a context.

@include "commands/context-create_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint context create [options] NAME`

Creates a new context.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-set-default` - Set this context as the new default for the CLI. The default is true.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address for the server.
- `-server-auth-token=<string>` - Authentication token to use to connect to the server.
- `-server-platform=<string>` - The current platform that Waypoint server is running on. The default is n/a.
- `-server-tls` - If true, will connect to the server over TLS. The default is true.
- `-server-tls-skip-verify` - If true, will not validate TLS cert presented by the server. The default is false.
- `-server-require-auth` - If true, will send authentication details. The default is false.

@include "commands/context-create_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/context-create.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Context create'
sidebar_title: 'context create'
description: 'Create a context.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Context create

Command: `waypoint context create`

Create a context.

@include "commands/context-create_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint context create [options] NAME`

Creates a new context.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-set-default` - Set this context as the new default for the CLI. The default is true.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address for the server.
- `-server-auth-token=<string>` - Authentication token to use to connect to the server.
- `-server-platform=<string>` - The current platform that Waypoint server is running on. The default is n/a.
- `-server-tls` - If true, will connect to the server over TLS. The default is true.
- `-server-tls-skip-verify` - If true, will not validate TLS cert presented by the server. The default is false.
- `-server-require-auth` - If true, will send authentication details. The default is false.

@include "commands/context-create_more.mdx"
