website/content/commands/destroy.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Destroy'
sidebar_title: 'destroy'
description: 'Delete all the resources created'
---

# Waypoint Destroy

Command: `waypoint destroy`

Delete all the resources created

@include "commands/destroy_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint destroy [options]`

Delete all resources created for all apps or project in the current workspace.
Specify the -app to select a given app to delete resources for in a given
workspace.

The workspace can continue to be used after this call, this just deletes
all the resources created for all apps in the workspace up to this point.

This functionality must be supported by the plugins in use and is dependent
on their behavior. The expected behavior is that any physical resources created
as part of deploys and releases are destroyed. For example, any load balancers,
VMs, containers, etc.

This targets apps in one workspace. You must call this for each workspace
you've used if you want to destroy everything.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-auto-approve` - Auto-approve destroying all resources. If unset, confirmation will be requested. The default is false.

@include "commands/destroy_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/destroy.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Destroy'
sidebar_title: 'destroy'
description: 'Delete all the resources created'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Destroy

Command: `waypoint destroy`

Delete all the resources created

@include "commands/destroy_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint destroy [options]`

Delete all resources created for all apps or project in the current workspace.
Specify the -app to select a given app to delete resources for in a given
workspace.

The workspace can continue to be used after this call, this just deletes
all the resources created for all apps in the workspace up to this point.

This functionality must be supported by the plugins in use and is dependent
on their behavior. The expected behavior is that any physical resources created
as part of deploys and releases are destroyed. For example, any load balancers,
VMs, containers, etc.

This targets apps in one workspace. You must call this for each workspace
you've used if you want to destroy everything.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-auto-approve` - Auto-approve destroying all resources. If unset, confirmation will be requested. The default is false.

@include "commands/destroy_more.mdx"
