website/content/commands/fmt.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Fmt'
sidebar_title: 'fmt'
description: 'Rewrite waypoint.hcl configuration to a canonical format'
---

# Waypoint Fmt

Command: `waypoint fmt`

Rewrite waypoint.hcl configuration to a canonical format

@include "commands/fmt_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint fmt [options] [FILE]`

Rewrite a waypoint.hcl file to a canonical format.

This only works for HCL-formatted Waypoint configuration files. JSON-formatted
files do not work and will result in an error.

If FILE is not specified, then the current directory will be searched
for a "waypoint.hcl" file. If FILE is "-" then the content will be read
from stdin.

This command does not validate the waypoint.hcl configuration. This will
work for older and newer configuration formats.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-write` - Overwrite the input file. If this is false, the formatted output will be written to STDOUT. This has no effect when formatting from STDIN or when using the -check flag. The default is true.
- `-check` - Check if the input is formatted. Exit status will be 0 if all input is properly formatted and exit status 3 otherwise. The default is false.

@include "commands/fmt_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/fmt.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Fmt'
sidebar_title: 'fmt'
description: 'Rewrite waypoint.hcl configuration to a canonical format'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Fmt

Command: `waypoint fmt`

Rewrite waypoint.hcl configuration to a canonical format

@include "commands/fmt_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint fmt [options] [FILE]`

Rewrite a waypoint.hcl file to a canonical format.

This only works for HCL-formatted Waypoint configuration files. JSON-formatted
files do not work and will result in an error.

If FILE is not specified, then the current directory will be searched
for a "waypoint.hcl" file. If FILE is "-" then the content will be read
from stdin.

This command does not validate the waypoint.hcl configuration. This will
work for older and newer configuration formats.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-write` - Overwrite the input file. If this is false, the formatted output will be written to STDOUT. This has no effect when formatting from STDIN or when using the -check flag. The default is true.
- `-check` - Check if the input is formatted. Exit status will be 0 if all input is properly formatted and exit status 3 otherwise. The default is false.

@include "commands/fmt_more.mdx"
