website/content/commands/hostname-register.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Hostname register'
sidebar_title: 'hostname register'
description: 'Register a hostname to route to your apps.'
---

# Waypoint Hostname register

Command: `waypoint hostname register`

Register a hostname to route to your apps.

@include "commands/hostname-register_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint hostname register [hostname]`

Register a hostname with the URL service to route to your apps.

The URL service must be enabled and configured with the Waypoint server.
This will output the fully qualified domain name that should begin
routing immediately.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/hostname-register_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/hostname-register.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Hostname register'
sidebar_title: 'hostname register'
description: 'Register a hostname to route to your apps.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Hostname register

Command: `waypoint hostname register`

Register a hostname to route to your apps.

@include "commands/hostname-register_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint hostname register [hostname]`

Register a hostname with the URL service to route to your apps.

The URL service must be enabled and configured with the Waypoint server.
This will output the fully qualified domain name that should begin
routing immediately.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/hostname-register_more.mdx"
