website/content/commands/job-cancel.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Job cancel'
sidebar_title: 'job cancel'
description: 'Cancel a running a job by id'
---

# Waypoint Job cancel

Command: `waypoint job cancel`

Cancel a running a job by id

@include "commands/job-cancel_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint job cancel [options] <job-id>`

Cancel a running job by id from Waypoint server.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-dangerously-force` - Will forcefully cancel the job. This will immediately mark the job as complete in the server, regardless of the real job status. This may leave dangling resources or cause concurrency issues if the underlying job doesn't gracefully cancel. USE WITH CAUTION. The default is false.

@include "commands/job-cancel_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/job-cancel.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Job cancel'
sidebar_title: 'job cancel'
description: 'Cancel a running a job by id'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Job cancel

Command: `waypoint job cancel`

Cancel a running a job by id

@include "commands/job-cancel_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint job cancel [options] <job-id>`

Cancel a running job by id from Waypoint server.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-dangerously-force` - Will forcefully cancel the job. This will immediately mark the job as complete in the server, regardless of the real job status. This may leave dangling resources or cause concurrency issues if the underlying job doesn't gracefully cancel. USE WITH CAUTION. The default is false.

@include "commands/job-cancel_more.mdx"
