website/content/commands/logs.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Logs'
sidebar_title: 'logs'
description: "Show log output from an application's current deployment"
---

# Waypoint Logs

Command: `waypoint logs`

Show log output from an application's current deployment

@include "commands/logs_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint logs [options]`

Show log output from all current deployments.

The logs will include output from deployments that aren't released.
As new deployments are made, their logs will appear automatically.

The six character text after the date on a log line is the last six
characters of the instance ID. This can be used to trace any logs back
to a specific deployment or filter out certain log messages.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-deployment-seq=<string>` - Get logs for a specific deployment of the app using the deployment sequence number. Not valid with the -workspace param as deployment sequence numbers span across workspaces.

@include "commands/logs_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/logs.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Logs'
sidebar_title: 'logs'
description: "Show log output from an application's current deployment"
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Logs

Command: `waypoint logs`

Show log output from an application's current deployment

@include "commands/logs_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint logs [options]`

Show log output from all current deployments.

The logs will include output from deployments that aren't released.
As new deployments are made, their logs will appear automatically.

The six character text after the date on a log line is the last six
characters of the instance ID. This can be used to trace any logs back
to a specific deployment or filter out certain log messages.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-deployment-seq=<string>` - Get logs for a specific deployment of the app using the deployment sequence number. Not valid with the -workspace param as deployment sequence numbers span across workspaces.

@include "commands/logs_more.mdx"
