website/content/commands/project-destroy.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project destroy'
sidebar_title: 'project destroy'
description: 'Delete the specified project and optionally destroy its resources.'
---

# Waypoint Project destroy

Command: `waypoint project destroy`

Delete the specified project and optionally destroy its resources.

@include "commands/project-destroy_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project destroy [options] -p <project>`

Delete the project and all resources created for all apps in the project, within
the platform each app was deployed to.

You must explicitly specify the project to destroy with the -project or -p flag.

You can skip destroying app resources with the -skip-destroy-resources flag.

You can skip the manual confirmation prompt with the -auto-approve flag.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-skip-destroy-resources` - Skips destroying resources created for the Waypoint project. The default is false.
- `-auto-approve` - Destroy the project and all of its resources without confirmation. The default is false.

@include "commands/project-destroy_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/project-destroy.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project destroy'
sidebar_title: 'project destroy'
description: 'Delete the specified project and optionally destroy its resources.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Project destroy

Command: `waypoint project destroy`

Delete the specified project and optionally destroy its resources.

@include "commands/project-destroy_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project destroy [options] -p <project>`

Delete the project and all resources created for all apps in the project, within
the platform each app was deployed to.

You must explicitly specify the project to destroy with the -project or -p flag.

You can skip destroying app resources with the -skip-destroy-resources flag.

You can skip the manual confirmation prompt with the -auto-approve flag.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-skip-destroy-resources` - Skips destroying resources created for the Waypoint project. The default is false.
- `-auto-approve` - Destroy the project and all of its resources without confirmation. The default is false.

@include "commands/project-destroy_more.mdx"
