website/content/commands/project-inspect.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project inspect'
sidebar_title: 'project inspect'
description: 'Inspect the details of a project.'
---

# Waypoint Project inspect

Command: `waypoint project inspect`

Inspect the details of a project.

@include "commands/project-inspect_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project inspect [project-name]`

Inspect the details of a given project.

Projects usually map to a single version control repository and contain
exactly one "waypoint.hcl" configuration. A project may contain multiple
applications.

A project is registered via the web UI, "waypoint project apply",
or "waypoint init".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-json` - Output project information as JSON. The default is false.

@include "commands/project-inspect_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/project-inspect.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project inspect'
sidebar_title: 'project inspect'
description: 'Inspect the details of a project.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Project inspect

Command: `waypoint project inspect`

Inspect the details of a project.

@include "commands/project-inspect_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project inspect [project-name]`

Inspect the details of a given project.

Projects usually map to a single version control repository and contain
exactly one "waypoint.hcl" configuration. A project may contain multiple
applications.

A project is registered via the web UI, "waypoint project apply",
or "waypoint init".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-json` - Output project information as JSON. The default is false.

@include "commands/project-inspect_more.mdx"
