website/content/commands/project-apply.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project apply'
sidebar_title: 'project apply'
description: 'Create or update a project.'
---

# Waypoint Project apply

Command: `waypoint project apply`

Create or update a project.

@include "commands/project-apply_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project apply [options] NAME`

Create or update a project.

This will create a new project with the given options. If a project with
the same name already exists, this will update the existing project using
the fields that are set.

This command should be used to create a new project pointing to a VCS
repo. If you have a "waypoint.hcl" file and a local repository, you can
also use "waypoint init" in the directory of the project.

You may create a project from a waypoint.hcl file and optionally overwrite
some fields using flags by specifying the -waypoint-hcl flag.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-from-waypoint-hcl=<string>` - waypoint.hcl formatted file to load settings from. This can be used to read settings from a file. Additional flags will override values found in the file. Note that any settings in the file will NOT be merged with what is already in the server; they will overwrite the server.
- `-waypoint-hcl=<string>` - Path to a waypoint.hcl file to associate with this project. This is only necessary if a waypoint.hcl is not committed alongside the project source code. If a waypoint.hcl file does not exist in the project source then this waypoint.hcl file will be used. This file will not be validated until an operation is run against the project; this is done on purpose since the waypoint.hcl file may depend on files in the source repository.
- `-data-source=<string>` - The data source type to use (currently only supports 'git' or 'local'). Associated data source settings (such as flags starting with '-git') will not take effect unless the appropriate data source is set with this flag.
- `-git-url=<string>` - URL of the Git repository to clone. This can be an HTTP or SSH URL.
- `-git-path=<string>` - Path is a subdirectory within the checked out repository to go into for the project's configuration. This must be a relative path and may not contain '..'.
- `-git-ref=<string>` - Git ref (i.e. branch, tag, commit) to clone on new operations.
- `-git-auth-type=<string>` - Authentication type for Git. If set, must be one of 'basic' or 'ssh'. Basic auth is username/password and SSH uses an SSH key.
- `-git-username=<string>` - Username for authentication when git-auth-type is 'basic'. For GitHub, this can be any value but it must be non-empty.
- `-git-password=<string>` - Password for authentication when git-auth-type is 'basic'. For GitHub, this should be a personal access token (PAT).
- `-git-private-key-path=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded private key for 'ssh'-based auth.
- `-git-private-key-password=<string>` - Password for the private key specified by git-private-key-path if the key requires a password to decode. This is not required if the private key doesn't require a password.
- `-git-recurse-submodules=<int>` - The maximum depth to recursively clone submodules. A value of zero disables cloning any submodules recursively.
- `-poll` - Enable polling. This is only valid if a Git data source is supplied. This will watch the repo for changes and trigger a remote 'up'.
- `-poll-interval=<string>` - Interval between polling if polling is enabled. The default is 30s.
- `-app-status-poll` - Enable polling to continuously generate status reports for apps. This is only valid if a Git data source is supplied.
- `-app-status-poll-interval=<string>` - Interval between polling to generate status reports if polling is enabled. The default is 5m.

@include "commands/project-apply_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/project-apply.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Project apply'
sidebar_title: 'project apply'
description: 'Create or update a project.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Project apply

Command: `waypoint project apply`

Create or update a project.

@include "commands/project-apply_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint project apply [options] NAME`

Create or update a project.

This will create a new project with the given options. If a project with
the same name already exists, this will update the existing project using
the fields that are set.

This command should be used to create a new project pointing to a VCS
repo. If you have a "waypoint.hcl" file and a local repository, you can
also use "waypoint init" in the directory of the project.

You may create a project from a waypoint.hcl file and optionally overwrite
some fields using flags by specifying the -waypoint-hcl flag.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-from-waypoint-hcl=<string>` - waypoint.hcl formatted file to load settings from. This can be used to read settings from a file. Additional flags will override values found in the file. Note that any settings in the file will NOT be merged with what is already in the server; they will overwrite the server.
- `-waypoint-hcl=<string>` - Path to a waypoint.hcl file to associate with this project. This is only necessary if a waypoint.hcl is not committed alongside the project source code. If a waypoint.hcl file does not exist in the project source then this waypoint.hcl file will be used. This file will not be validated until an operation is run against the project; this is done on purpose since the waypoint.hcl file may depend on files in the source repository.
- `-data-source=<string>` - The data source type to use (currently only supports 'git' or 'local'). Associated data source settings (such as flags starting with '-git') will not take effect unless the appropriate data source is set with this flag.
- `-git-url=<string>` - URL of the Git repository to clone. This can be an HTTP or SSH URL.
- `-git-path=<string>` - Path is a subdirectory within the checked out repository to go into for the project's configuration. This must be a relative path and may not contain '..'.
- `-git-ref=<string>` - Git ref (i.e. branch, tag, commit) to clone on new operations.
- `-git-auth-type=<string>` - Authentication type for Git. If set, must be one of 'basic' or 'ssh'. Basic auth is username/password and SSH uses an SSH key.
- `-git-username=<string>` - Username for authentication when git-auth-type is 'basic'. For GitHub, this can be any value but it must be non-empty.
- `-git-password=<string>` - Password for authentication when git-auth-type is 'basic'. For GitHub, this should be a personal access token (PAT).
- `-git-private-key-path=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded private key for 'ssh'-based auth.
- `-git-private-key-password=<string>` - Password for the private key specified by git-private-key-path if the key requires a password to decode. This is not required if the private key doesn't require a password.
- `-git-recurse-submodules=<int>` - The maximum depth to recursively clone submodules. A value of zero disables cloning any submodules recursively.
- `-poll` - Enable polling. This is only valid if a Git data source is supplied. This will watch the repo for changes and trigger a remote 'up'.
- `-poll-interval=<string>` - Interval between polling if polling is enabled. The default is 30s.
- `-app-status-poll` - Enable polling to continuously generate status reports for apps. This is only valid if a Git data source is supplied.
- `-app-status-poll-interval=<string>` - Interval between polling to generate status reports if polling is enabled. The default is 5m.

@include "commands/project-apply_more.mdx"
