website/content/commands/runner-adopt.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner adopt'
sidebar_title: 'runner adopt'
description: 'Adopt a pending runner'
---

# Waypoint Runner adopt

Command: `waypoint runner adopt`

Adopt a pending runner

@include "commands/runner-adopt_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner adopt [options] ID`

Adopt a pending runner with the given ID.

The ID can be retrieved via the "waypoint runner list" command or
the API. This ID must be the ID of a currently registered runner. The
runner can be in any state: new, preadopted, adopted, or rejected. This
will move the runner to the adopted state.

Once a runner is adopted, that runner ID will remain adopted. Runners may
restart and will accept jobs immediately, so long as they continue using
the token they received during the adoption process.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/runner-adopt_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-adopt.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner adopt'
sidebar_title: 'runner adopt'
description: 'Adopt a pending runner'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner adopt

Command: `waypoint runner adopt`

Adopt a pending runner

@include "commands/runner-adopt_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner adopt [options] ID`

Adopt a pending runner with the given ID.

The ID can be retrieved via the "waypoint runner list" command or
the API. This ID must be the ID of a currently registered runner. The
runner can be in any state: new, preadopted, adopted, or rejected. This
will move the runner to the adopted state.

Once a runner is adopted, that runner ID will remain adopted. Runners may
restart and will accept jobs immediately, so long as they continue using
the token they received during the adoption process.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/runner-adopt_more.mdx"
