website/content/commands/runner-token.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner token'
sidebar_title: 'runner token'
description: 'Request a new token to run a runner'
---

# Waypoint Runner token

Command: `waypoint runner token`

Request a new token to run a runner

@include "commands/runner-token_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner token [options]`

Generate a new runner token used for runners.

This generates a new token that can be used for "waypoint runner agent".
Generating a token in advance enables the "pre-adoption" mode where a runner
avoids the manual adoption process and begins accepting work immediately.

While this makes it possible to do things such as automate runners all the
way to running, it is generally not recommended since it requires a higher
level of security to transfer a token around.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-expires-in=<duration>` - The duration until the token expires. i.e. '5m'. The default is 720h0m0s.
- `-id=<string>` - Id to restrict this token to. If empty, all runner IDs are valid.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels that must match the runner for this token to be valid. These are set in 'k=v' format and this flag can be repeated to set multiple labels. If no labels are set, runners with any labels are valid.

@include "commands/runner-token_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-token.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner token'
sidebar_title: 'runner token'
description: 'Request a new token to run a runner'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner token

Command: `waypoint runner token`

Request a new token to run a runner

@include "commands/runner-token_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner token [options]`

Generate a new runner token used for runners.

This generates a new token that can be used for "waypoint runner agent".
Generating a token in advance enables the "pre-adoption" mode where a runner
avoids the manual adoption process and begins accepting work immediately.

While this makes it possible to do things such as automate runners all the
way to running, it is generally not recommended since it requires a higher
level of security to transfer a token around.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-expires-in=<duration>` - The duration until the token expires. i.e. '5m'. The default is 720h0m0s.
- `-id=<string>` - Id to restrict this token to. If empty, all runner IDs are valid.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels that must match the runner for this token to be valid. These are set in 'k=v' format and this flag can be repeated to set multiple labels. If no labels are set, runners with any labels are valid.

@include "commands/runner-token_more.mdx"
