website/content/commands/runner-forget.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner forget'
sidebar_title: 'runner forget'
description: 'Forget a previously registered runner'
---

# Waypoint Runner forget

Command: `waypoint runner forget`

Forget a previously registered runner

@include "commands/runner-forget_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner forget [options] ID`

Forget a previously registered runner.

This will delete any records of a previously registered runner. If the
runner is currently running, it will begin to error on the next job request.
On subsequent registrations, the Waypoint server behaves as if it has never
seen this runner before and triggers the full adoption process again.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/runner-forget_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-forget.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner forget'
sidebar_title: 'runner forget'
description: 'Forget a previously registered runner'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner forget

Command: `waypoint runner forget`

Forget a previously registered runner

@include "commands/runner-forget_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner forget [options] ID`

Forget a previously registered runner.

This will delete any records of a previously registered runner. If the
runner is currently running, it will begin to error on the next job request.
On subsequent registrations, the Waypoint server behaves as if it has never
seen this runner before and triggers the full adoption process again.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/runner-forget_more.mdx"
