website/content/commands/runner-install.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner install'
sidebar_title: 'runner install'
description: 'Install a Waypoint runner to Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker'
---

# Waypoint Runner install

Command: `waypoint runner install`

Install a Waypoint runner to Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker

@include "commands/runner-install_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner install [options]`

Install a Waypoint runner to the specified platform: kubernetes, nomad, ecs,
or docker.

This command will attempt to install a runner for the server configured in
the current Waypoint context. It will adopt the runner after installation,
unless the '-skip-adopt' flag is set to true.

To further customize the runner installation, you may pass advanced flag
options specified in the documentation for the 'runner agent' command. To set
these values, include a '--' after the full argument list for 'install',
followed by these advanced flag options. As an example, to set a label k/v
on the runner profile that is generated as part of adopting a runner during
the install, the command would be:

    waypoint runner install -server-addr=localhost:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify -- -label=environment=primary

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to install the Waypoint runner into. If unset, uses the platform of the local context. One possible value from: docker, ecs, kubernetes, nomad.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address of the Waypoint server.
- `-odr-image=<string>` - Docker image for the on-demand runners. The default is hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest.
- `-server-tls` - Connect the runner to the server over TLS. The default is true.
- `-server-tls-skip-verify` - Skip TLS verification for runner connection to server. The default is false.
- `-server-require-auth` - Send authentication details from runner to server. The default is false.
- `-skip-adopt` - Skip adoption of runner after it is installed. The default is false.
- `-id=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will use the specified id.

#### docker Options

- `-docker-runner-image=<string>` - The Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-docker-runner-network=<string>` - The Docker network in which to deploy the Waypoint runner.
- `-docker-socket-path=<string>` - The path of the Docker socket that will be bound in runner. The default is /var/run/docker.sock.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-region=<string>` - AWS region in which to install the Waypoint runner.
- `-ecs-execution-role-name=<string>` - The name of the execution task IAM Role to associate with the ECS Service. The default is waypoint-runner-execution-role.
- `-ecs-task-role-name=<string>` - IAM Execution Role to assign to the on-demand runner. The default is waypoint-runner.
- `-ecs-cpu=<string>` - The amount of CPU to allocate for the Waypoint runner task. The default is 512.
- `-ecs-memory=<string>` - The amount of memory to allocate for the Waypoint runner task. The default is 2048.
- `-ecs-runner-image=<string>` - The Waypoint runner Docker image. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - The name of the ECS Cluster to install the Waypoint runner into. The default is waypoint-server.
- `-ecs-subnets=<string>` - Subnets to install the Waypoint runner into.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-config-path=<string>` - Path to the kubeconfig file to use.
- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to install the Waypoint runner to. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-helm-version=<string>` - The version of the Helm chart to use for the Waypoint runner install. The required version number format is: 'vX.Y.Z'.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - The namespace in the Kubernetes cluster into which the Waypoint runner will be installed. The default is default.
- `-k8s-runner-image=<string>` - Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint:latest.
- `-k8s-cpu-request=<string>` - Requested amount of CPU for Waypoint runner. The default is 250m.
- `-k8s-mem-request=<string>` - Requested amount of memory for Waypoint runner. The default is 256Mi.
- `-k8s-runner-service-account-init` - Create the service account if it does not exist. The default is true.
- `-k8s-image-pull-policy=<string>` - Set the pull policy for the Waypoint runner image.

#### nomad Options

- `-nomad-dc=<string>` - Datacenters to install to for Nomad. The default is dc1.
- `-nomad-runner-image=<string>` - Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-nomad-host-volume=<string>` - Nomad host volume name.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-plugin-id=<string>` - The ID of the CSI plugin that manages the volume, required for volume type 'csi'.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-provider=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume provider, required for volume type 'csi'.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-capacity-min=<int>` - Nomad CSI volume capacity minimum, in bytes. The default is 1073741824.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-capacity-max=<int>` - Nomad CSI volume capacity maximum, in bytes. The default is 2147483648.
- `-nomad-csi-fs=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume mount option file system. The default is xfs.
- `-nomad-csi-mount-flags=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume mount option flags. The default is noatime.
- `-nomad-csi-params=<key=value>` - Parameters passed directly to the CSI plugin to configure the volume.
- `-nomad-csi-topologies=<key=value>` - Locations from which the Nomad Volume will be accessible.
- `-nomad-csi-external-id=<string>` - The ID of the physical volume from the Nomad storage provider.
- `-nomad-csi-secrets=<key=value>` - Credentials for publishing volume for Waypoint runner.
- `-nomad-csi-volume=<string>` - The name of the volume to initialize within the CSI provider. The default is waypoint-[runner_id]-runner.

@include "commands/runner-install_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-install.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner install'
sidebar_title: 'runner install'
description: 'Install a Waypoint runner to Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner install

Command: `waypoint runner install`

Install a Waypoint runner to Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker

@include "commands/runner-install_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner install [options]`

Install a Waypoint runner to the specified platform: kubernetes, nomad, ecs,
or docker.

This command will attempt to install a runner for the server configured in
the current Waypoint context. It will adopt the runner after installation,
unless the '-skip-adopt' flag is set to true.

To further customize the runner installation, you may pass advanced flag
options specified in the documentation for the 'runner agent' command. To set
these values, include a '--' after the full argument list for 'install',
followed by these advanced flag options. As an example, to set a label k/v
on the runner profile that is generated as part of adopting a runner during
the install, the command would be:

    waypoint runner install -server-addr=localhost:9701 -server-tls-skip-verify -- -label=environment=primary

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to install the Waypoint runner into. If unset, uses the platform of the local context. One possible value from: docker, ecs, kubernetes, nomad.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address of the Waypoint server.
- `-odr-image=<string>` - Docker image for the on-demand runners. The default is hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest.
- `-server-tls` - Connect the runner to the server over TLS. The default is true.
- `-server-tls-skip-verify` - Skip TLS verification for runner connection to server. The default is false.
- `-server-require-auth` - Send authentication details from runner to server. The default is false.
- `-skip-adopt` - Skip adoption of runner after it is installed. The default is false.
- `-id=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will use the specified id.

#### docker Options

- `-docker-runner-image=<string>` - The Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-docker-runner-network=<string>` - The Docker network in which to deploy the Waypoint runner.
- `-docker-socket-path=<string>` - The path of the Docker socket that will be bound in runner. The default is /var/run/docker.sock.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-region=<string>` - AWS region in which to install the Waypoint runner.
- `-ecs-execution-role-name=<string>` - The name of the execution task IAM Role to associate with the ECS Service. The default is waypoint-runner-execution-role.
- `-ecs-task-role-name=<string>` - IAM Execution Role to assign to the on-demand runner. The default is waypoint-runner.
- `-ecs-cpu=<string>` - The amount of CPU to allocate for the Waypoint runner task. The default is 512.
- `-ecs-memory=<string>` - The amount of memory to allocate for the Waypoint runner task. The default is 2048.
- `-ecs-runner-image=<string>` - The Waypoint runner Docker image. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - The name of the ECS Cluster to install the Waypoint runner into. The default is waypoint-server.
- `-ecs-subnets=<string>` - Subnets to install the Waypoint runner into.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-config-path=<string>` - Path to the kubeconfig file to use.
- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to install the Waypoint runner to. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-helm-version=<string>` - The version of the Helm chart to use for the Waypoint runner install. The required version number format is: 'vX.Y.Z'.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - The namespace in the Kubernetes cluster into which the Waypoint runner will be installed. The default is default.
- `-k8s-runner-image=<string>` - Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint:latest.
- `-k8s-cpu-request=<string>` - Requested amount of CPU for Waypoint runner. The default is 250m.
- `-k8s-mem-request=<string>` - Requested amount of memory for Waypoint runner. The default is 256Mi.
- `-k8s-runner-service-account-init` - Create the service account if it does not exist. The default is true.
- `-k8s-image-pull-policy=<string>` - Set the pull policy for the Waypoint runner image.

#### nomad Options

- `-nomad-dc=<string>` - Datacenters to install to for Nomad. The default is dc1.
- `-nomad-runner-image=<string>` - Docker image for the Waypoint runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint.
- `-nomad-host-volume=<string>` - Nomad host volume name.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-plugin-id=<string>` - The ID of the CSI plugin that manages the volume, required for volume type 'csi'.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-provider=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume provider, required for volume type 'csi'.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-capacity-min=<int>` - Nomad CSI volume capacity minimum, in bytes. The default is 1073741824.
- `-nomad-csi-volume-capacity-max=<int>` - Nomad CSI volume capacity maximum, in bytes. The default is 2147483648.
- `-nomad-csi-fs=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume mount option file system. The default is xfs.
- `-nomad-csi-mount-flags=<string>` - Nomad CSI volume mount option flags. The default is noatime.
- `-nomad-csi-params=<key=value>` - Parameters passed directly to the CSI plugin to configure the volume.
- `-nomad-csi-topologies=<key=value>` - Locations from which the Nomad Volume will be accessible.
- `-nomad-csi-external-id=<string>` - The ID of the physical volume from the Nomad storage provider.
- `-nomad-csi-secrets=<key=value>` - Credentials for publishing volume for Waypoint runner.
- `-nomad-csi-volume=<string>` - The name of the volume to initialize within the CSI provider. The default is waypoint-[runner_id]-runner.

@include "commands/runner-install_more.mdx"
