website/content/commands/runner-agent.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner agent'
sidebar_title: 'runner agent'
description: 'Run a runner for executing remote operations.'
---

# Waypoint Runner agent

Command: `waypoint runner agent`

Run a runner for executing remote operations.

@include "commands/runner-agent_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner agent [options]`

Run a remote runner for executing remote operations.

Runners are named or identified via the ID and the label set. The ID
can be manually specified or automatically generated. The label set is
specified using "-label" flags.

A runner can be registered with the server in two ways. First, a
runner token can be created with "waypoint runner token" and used with
this command (using the WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN environment variable,
"waypoint context", etc.). This will allow the runner to begin accepting
jobs immediately since it is preauthorized.

The second approach is to specify only the cookie value (acquired using
the "waypoint server cookie" command) and the server address. This will
trigger a process that puts the runner in a pending state until a human
manually verifies it. This is useful for easily installing runners.

The "-state-dir" flag is optional, but important. This flag allows runners
to restart gracefully without regenerating a new ID or losing a rotated
authentication token. Runners can be run without a state directory but it is
not generally recommended.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-enable-dynamic-config` - Allow dynamic config to be created when an exec plugin is used. The default is false.
- `-liveness-tcp-addr=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will open a TCP listener on this address when it is running. This can be used as a liveness probe endpoint. The TCP server serves no other purpose.
- `-id=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will use the specified id.
- `-cookie=<string>` - The cookie value of the server to validate API requests. This is required for runner adoption. If you do not already have a runner token, this must be set.
- `-state-dir=<string>` - Directory to store state between restarts. This is optional. If this is set, then a runner can restart without re-triggering the adoption process.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this runner in 'k=v' format. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-concurrency=<int>` - The number of concurrent jobs that can be running at one time. This has no effect if `-odr` is set. The default value applied will be (total number of logical cpus available \* 3). A value of less than 1 will default to 1.

@include "commands/runner-agent_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-agent.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner agent'
sidebar_title: 'runner agent'
description: 'Run a runner for executing remote operations.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner agent

Command: `waypoint runner agent`

Run a runner for executing remote operations.

@include "commands/runner-agent_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner agent [options]`

Run a remote runner for executing remote operations.

Runners are named or identified via the ID and the label set. The ID
can be manually specified or automatically generated. The label set is
specified using "-label" flags.

A runner can be registered with the server in two ways. First, a
runner token can be created with "waypoint runner token" and used with
this command (using the WAYPOINT_SERVER_TOKEN environment variable,
"waypoint context", etc.). This will allow the runner to begin accepting
jobs immediately since it is preauthorized.

The second approach is to specify only the cookie value (acquired using
the "waypoint server cookie" command) and the server address. This will
trigger a process that puts the runner in a pending state until a human
manually verifies it. This is useful for easily installing runners.

The "-state-dir" flag is optional, but important. This flag allows runners
to restart gracefully without regenerating a new ID or losing a rotated
authentication token. Runners can be run without a state directory but it is
not generally recommended.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-enable-dynamic-config` - Allow dynamic config to be created when an exec plugin is used. The default is false.
- `-liveness-tcp-addr=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will open a TCP listener on this address when it is running. This can be used as a liveness probe endpoint. The TCP server serves no other purpose.
- `-id=<string>` - If this is set, the runner will use the specified id.
- `-cookie=<string>` - The cookie value of the server to validate API requests. This is required for runner adoption. If you do not already have a runner token, this must be set.
- `-state-dir=<string>` - Directory to store state between restarts. This is optional. If this is set, then a runner can restart without re-triggering the adoption process.
- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this runner in 'k=v' format. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-concurrency=<int>` - The number of concurrent jobs that can be running at one time. This has no effect if `-odr` is set. The default value applied will be (total number of logical cpus available \* 3). A value of less than 1 will default to 1.

@include "commands/runner-agent_more.mdx"
