website/content/commands/runner-list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner list'
sidebar_title: 'runner list'
description: 'List registered runners'
---

# Waypoint Runner list

Command: `waypoint runner list`

List registered runners

@include "commands/runner-list_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner list [options]`

List runners that are registered with the Waypoint server.

This will list all runners that the Waypoint server currently knows
about. This list does not guarantee each runner is online; Waypoint currently
does not expose online/offline status. This lists runners that have registered
at least once with the server.

This can be used to find pending runners that need to be adopted. Runners
that are pending (not adopted) will not be sent any jobs or configuration.
Runners that are accepted (adopted) are sent jobs. Runners that are
"preadopted" are sent jobs but have avoided the manual adoption process by
being preconfigured with a valid runner token (see "waypoint runner token").
Runners that are "rejected" are never given jobs, and error immediately if
they try to register.

If a runner is pending, you can adopt it using "waypoint runner adopt ID"
where "ID" comes from the output from this command. You can explicitly
reject a runner using "waypoint runner reject ID". A runner can be rejected
at any time, even after it is already adopted.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-pending` - List only runners pending adoption. The default is false.
- `-json` - Output runner configuration list information as JSON. This includes more fields since this is the complete API structure. The default is false.

@include "commands/runner-list_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner list'
sidebar_title: 'runner list'
description: 'List registered runners'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner list

Command: `waypoint runner list`

List registered runners

@include "commands/runner-list_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner list [options]`

List runners that are registered with the Waypoint server.

This will list all runners that the Waypoint server currently knows
about. This list does not guarantee each runner is online; Waypoint currently
does not expose online/offline status. This lists runners that have registered
at least once with the server.

This can be used to find pending runners that need to be adopted. Runners
that are pending (not adopted) will not be sent any jobs or configuration.
Runners that are accepted (adopted) are sent jobs. Runners that are
"preadopted" are sent jobs but have avoided the manual adoption process by
being preconfigured with a valid runner token (see "waypoint runner token").
Runners that are "rejected" are never given jobs, and error immediately if
they try to register.

If a runner is pending, you can adopt it using "waypoint runner adopt ID"
where "ID" comes from the output from this command. You can explicitly
reject a runner using "waypoint runner reject ID". A runner can be rejected
at any time, even after it is already adopted.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-pending` - List only runners pending adoption. The default is false.
- `-json` - Output runner configuration list information as JSON. This includes more fields since this is the complete API structure. The default is false.

@include "commands/runner-list_more.mdx"
