website/content/commands/runner-profile-set.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner profile set'
sidebar_title: 'runner profile set'
description: 'Create or update a runner profile.'
---

# Waypoint Runner profile set

Command: `waypoint runner profile set`

Create or update a runner profile.

@include "commands/runner-profile-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner profile set [OPTIONS]`

Create or update a runner profile.

This will register a new runner profile with the given options. If
a runner profile with the same id already exists, this will update the
existing runner profile using the fields that are set.
Waypoint will use a runner profile to spawn containers for
various kinds of work as needed on the platform requested during any given
lifecycle operation.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-name=<string>` - The name of an existing runner profile to update.
- `-oci-url=<string>` - The url for the OCI image to launch for the on-demand runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest.
- `-env-var=<key=value>` - Environment variable to expose to the on-demand runner set in 'k=v' format. Typically used to introduce configuration for the plugins that the runner will execute. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-env-vars=<string>` - DEPRECATED. Please see `-env-var`.
- `-plugin-type=<string>` - The type of the plugin to launch for the on-demand runner, such as aws-ecs, kubernetes, etc.
- `-plugin-config=<string>` - Path to an hcl file that contains the configuration for the plugin. This is only necessary when the plugin's defaults need to be adjusted for the environment the plugin will launch the on-demand runner in.
- `-default` - Indicates that this remote runner profile should be the default for any project that doesn't otherwise specify its own remote runner.
- `-target-runner-id=<string>` - ID of the runner to target for this remote runner profile.
- `-target-runner-label=<key=value>` - Labels on the runner to target for this remote runner profile. e.g. `-target-runner-label=k=v`. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-target-runner-any` - Set profile to target any available runner.

@include "commands/runner-profile-set_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-profile-set.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner profile set'
sidebar_title: 'runner profile set'
description: 'Create or update a runner profile.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner profile set

Command: `waypoint runner profile set`

Create or update a runner profile.

@include "commands/runner-profile-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner profile set [OPTIONS]`

Create or update a runner profile.

This will register a new runner profile with the given options. If
a runner profile with the same id already exists, this will update the
existing runner profile using the fields that are set.
Waypoint will use a runner profile to spawn containers for
various kinds of work as needed on the platform requested during any given
lifecycle operation.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-name=<string>` - The name of an existing runner profile to update.
- `-oci-url=<string>` - The url for the OCI image to launch for the on-demand runner. The default is hashicorp/waypoint-odr:latest.
- `-env-var=<key=value>` - Environment variable to expose to the on-demand runner set in 'k=v' format. Typically used to introduce configuration for the plugins that the runner will execute. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-env-vars=<string>` - DEPRECATED. Please see `-env-var`.
- `-plugin-type=<string>` - The type of the plugin to launch for the on-demand runner, such as aws-ecs, kubernetes, etc.
- `-plugin-config=<string>` - Path to an hcl file that contains the configuration for the plugin. This is only necessary when the plugin's defaults need to be adjusted for the environment the plugin will launch the on-demand runner in.
- `-default` - Indicates that this remote runner profile should be the default for any project that doesn't otherwise specify its own remote runner.
- `-target-runner-id=<string>` - ID of the runner to target for this remote runner profile.
- `-target-runner-label=<key=value>` - Labels on the runner to target for this remote runner profile. e.g. `-target-runner-label=k=v`. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-target-runner-any` - Set profile to target any available runner.

@include "commands/runner-profile-set_more.mdx"
