website/content/commands/runner-uninstall.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner uninstall'
sidebar_title: 'runner uninstall'
description: 'Uninstall a Waypoint runner from Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker'
---

# Waypoint Runner uninstall

Command: `waypoint runner uninstall`

Uninstall a Waypoint runner from Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker

@include "commands/runner-uninstall_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner uninstall [options]`

Uninstall a Waypoint runner from server given a platform and Waypoint runner
id. The platform should be specified as kubernetes, nomad, ecs, or docker.

This will forget the runner on the server and remove any of the resources
created by a runner installation.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to uninstall the Waypoint runner from.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address of the Waypoint server.
- `-id=<string>` - ID of the Waypoint runner.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-region=<string>` - AWS region in which to install the Waypoint runner.
- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - The name of the ECS Cluster to install the Waypoint runner into. The default is waypoint-server.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-config-path=<string>` - Path to the kubeconfig file to use.
- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to install the Waypoint runner to. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - The namespace in the Kubernetes cluster into which the Waypoint runner will be installed. The default is default.

@include "commands/runner-uninstall_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/runner-uninstall.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Runner uninstall'
sidebar_title: 'runner uninstall'
description: 'Uninstall a Waypoint runner from Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Runner uninstall

Command: `waypoint runner uninstall`

Uninstall a Waypoint runner from Kubernetes, Nomad, ECS, or Docker

@include "commands/runner-uninstall_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint runner uninstall [options]`

Uninstall a Waypoint runner from server given a platform and Waypoint runner
id. The platform should be specified as kubernetes, nomad, ecs, or docker.

This will forget the runner on the server and remove any of the resources
created by a runner installation.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to uninstall the Waypoint runner from.
- `-server-addr=<string>` - Address of the Waypoint server.
- `-id=<string>` - ID of the Waypoint runner.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-region=<string>` - AWS region in which to install the Waypoint runner.
- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - The name of the ECS Cluster to install the Waypoint runner into. The default is waypoint-server.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-config-path=<string>` - Path to the kubeconfig file to use.
- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to install the Waypoint runner to. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - The namespace in the Kubernetes cluster into which the Waypoint runner will be installed. The default is default.

@include "commands/runner-uninstall_more.mdx"
