website/content/commands/server-run.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server run'
sidebar_title: 'server run'
description: 'Manually run the builtin server'
---

# Waypoint Server run

Command: `waypoint server run`

Manually run the builtin server

@include "commands/server-run_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server run [options]`

Run the builtin server.

The easier way to run a server is to use the "waypoint install" command.
This command is for people who are manually running the server in any
environment.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-db=<string>` - Path to the database file.
- `-listen-grpc=<string>` - Address to bind to for gRPC connections. The default is 127.0.0.1:9701.
- `-listen-http=<string>` - Address to bind to for HTTP connections. Required for the UI. The default is 127.0.0.1:9702.
- `-listen-http-insecure=<string>` - Address to bind to for insecure HTTP connections. This will not have TLS enabled. This will redirect users to the TLS port UNLESS there is an X-Forwarded-Proto header. This makes this port suitable for proxy backends.
- `-tls-cert-file=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded certificate file for TLS. If this isn't set, a self-signed certificate will be generated. This file will be monitored for changes and will automatically reload on change.
- `-tls-key-file=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded private key file for the TLS certificate specified with -tls-cert-file. This is required if -tls-cert-file is set. This file will be monitored for changes and will automatically reload on change.
- `-disable-ui` - Disable the embedded web interface. The default is false.
- `-url-enabled` - Enable the URL service. The default is true.
- `-url-api-addr=<string>` - Address to Waypoint URL service API. The default is api.waypoint.run:443.
- `-url-api-insecure` - True if TLS is not enabled for the Waypoint URL service API. The default is false.
- `-url-control-addr=<string>` - Address to Waypoint URL service control API. The default is https://control.hzn.network.
- `-url-control-token=<string>` - Token for the Waypoint URL server control API.
- `-url-auto-app-hostname` - Whether apps automatically get a hostname on deploy. The default is true.
- `-advertise-addr=<string>` - Address to advertise for the server. This is used by the entrypoints
  binaries to communicate back to the server. If this is blank, then
  the entrypoints will not communicate to the server. Features such as
  logs, exec, etc. will not work.
- `-advertise-tls` - If true, the advertised address should be connected to with TLS. The default is true.
- `-advertise-tls-skip-verify` - Do not verify the TLS certificate presented by the server. The default is false.
- `-accept-tos` - Pass to accept the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy to use the Waypoint URL Service. This is required if the URL service is enabled and you're using the HashiCorp-provided URL service rather than self-hosting. See the privacy policy at https://hashicorp.com/privacy and the ToS at https://waypointproject.io/terms. The default is false.
- `-telemetry-oc-agent-addr=<string>` - Address of an OpenCensus agent or collector available to receive OpenCensus formatted telemetry, traces and stats (commonly port 55678). Example: localhost:55678.
- `-telemetry-oc-agent-insecure` - Disables client transport security for the OpenCensus agent exporter's gRPC connection. The default is false.
- `-telemetry-dd-trace-addr=<string>` - Address of a DataDog agent available to accept traces (commonly port 8126). Example: localhost:8126.
- `-telemetry-oc-zpages-addr=<string>` - If set, Waypoint will run an OpenCensus zPages server at this address. Typically this is set to something like localhost:9999, where trace debug information could be viewed at http://localhost:9999/debug/tracez, and rpc stats at http://localhost:55679/debug/rpcz. More information at https://opencensus.io/zpages/.

@include "commands/server-run_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/server-run.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server run'
sidebar_title: 'server run'
description: 'Manually run the builtin server'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Server run

Command: `waypoint server run`

Manually run the builtin server

@include "commands/server-run_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server run [options]`

Run the builtin server.

The easier way to run a server is to use the "waypoint install" command.
This command is for people who are manually running the server in any
environment.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-db=<string>` - Path to the database file.
- `-listen-grpc=<string>` - Address to bind to for gRPC connections. The default is 127.0.0.1:9701.
- `-listen-http=<string>` - Address to bind to for HTTP connections. Required for the UI. The default is 127.0.0.1:9702.
- `-listen-http-insecure=<string>` - Address to bind to for insecure HTTP connections. This will not have TLS enabled. This will redirect users to the TLS port UNLESS there is an X-Forwarded-Proto header. This makes this port suitable for proxy backends.
- `-tls-cert-file=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded certificate file for TLS. If this isn't set, a self-signed certificate will be generated. This file will be monitored for changes and will automatically reload on change.
- `-tls-key-file=<string>` - Path to a PEM-encoded private key file for the TLS certificate specified with -tls-cert-file. This is required if -tls-cert-file is set. This file will be monitored for changes and will automatically reload on change.
- `-disable-ui` - Disable the embedded web interface. The default is false.
- `-url-enabled` - Enable the URL service. The default is true.
- `-url-api-addr=<string>` - Address to Waypoint URL service API. The default is api.waypoint.run:443.
- `-url-api-insecure` - True if TLS is not enabled for the Waypoint URL service API. The default is false.
- `-url-control-addr=<string>` - Address to Waypoint URL service control API. The default is https://control.hzn.network.
- `-url-control-token=<string>` - Token for the Waypoint URL server control API.
- `-url-auto-app-hostname` - Whether apps automatically get a hostname on deploy. The default is true.
- `-advertise-addr=<string>` - Address to advertise for the server. This is used by the entrypoints
  binaries to communicate back to the server. If this is blank, then
  the entrypoints will not communicate to the server. Features such as
  logs, exec, etc. will not work.
- `-advertise-tls` - If true, the advertised address should be connected to with TLS. The default is true.
- `-advertise-tls-skip-verify` - Do not verify the TLS certificate presented by the server. The default is false.
- `-accept-tos` - Pass to accept the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy to use the Waypoint URL Service. This is required if the URL service is enabled and you're using the HashiCorp-provided URL service rather than self-hosting. See the privacy policy at https://hashicorp.com/privacy and the ToS at https://waypointproject.io/terms. The default is false.
- `-telemetry-oc-agent-addr=<string>` - Address of an OpenCensus agent or collector available to receive OpenCensus formatted telemetry, traces and stats (commonly port 55678). Example: localhost:55678.
- `-telemetry-oc-agent-insecure` - Disables client transport security for the OpenCensus agent exporter's gRPC connection. The default is false.
- `-telemetry-dd-trace-addr=<string>` - Address of a DataDog agent available to accept traces (commonly port 8126). Example: localhost:8126.
- `-telemetry-oc-zpages-addr=<string>` - If set, Waypoint will run an OpenCensus zPages server at this address. Typically this is set to something like localhost:9999, where trace debug information could be viewed at http://localhost:9999/debug/tracez, and rpc stats at http://localhost:55679/debug/rpcz. More information at https://opencensus.io/zpages/.

@include "commands/server-run_more.mdx"
