website/content/commands/server-config-set.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server config-set'
sidebar_title: 'server config-set'
description: 'Set the server online configuration'
---

# Waypoint Server config-set

Command: `waypoint server config-set`

Set the server online configuration

@include "commands/server-config-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server config-set [options]`

Set the online configuration for a running Waypoint server.

The configuration that can be set here is different from the configuration
given via the startup file. This configuration is persisted in the server
database.

Each flag represents a setting and all settings are transmitted to the server
on submission. To correctly set the configuration, provide all flags
together in one call.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-advertise-addr=<string>` - Address to advertise for the server. This is used by the entrypoints
  binaries to communicate back to the server. If this is blank, then
  the entrypoints will not communicate to the server. Features such as
  logs, exec, etc. will not work.
- `-advertise-tls` - If true, the advertised address should be connected to with TLS. The default is true.
- `-advertise-tls-skip-verify` - Do not verify the TLS certificate presented by the server. The default is false.

@include "commands/server-config-set_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/server-config-set.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server config-set'
sidebar_title: 'server config-set'
description: 'Set the server online configuration'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Server config-set

Command: `waypoint server config-set`

Set the server online configuration

@include "commands/server-config-set_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server config-set [options]`

Set the online configuration for a running Waypoint server.

The configuration that can be set here is different from the configuration
given via the startup file. This configuration is persisted in the server
database.

Each flag represents a setting and all settings are transmitted to the server
on submission. To correctly set the configuration, provide all flags
together in one call.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-advertise-addr=<string>` - Address to advertise for the server. This is used by the entrypoints
  binaries to communicate back to the server. If this is blank, then
  the entrypoints will not communicate to the server. Features such as
  logs, exec, etc. will not work.
- `-advertise-tls` - If true, the advertised address should be connected to with TLS. The default is true.
- `-advertise-tls-skip-verify` - Do not verify the TLS certificate presented by the server. The default is false.

@include "commands/server-config-set_more.mdx"
