website/content/commands/server-uninstall.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server uninstall'
sidebar_title: 'server uninstall'
description: 'Uninstall the Waypoint server'
---

# Waypoint Server uninstall

Command: `waypoint server uninstall`

Uninstall the Waypoint server

@include "commands/server-uninstall_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server uninstall [options]`

Uninstall the Waypoint server. This command is not intended to uninstall a
server that was manually run with the 'waypoint server run' CLI, but with
a Waypoint server that was installed via 'waypoint server install'.

The platform can be specified as kubernetes, nomad, ecs, or docker. If not
specified, the CLI command will attempt to retrieve the platform defined in
the server context.

By default, this command deletes the default server's context and creates
a server snapshot.

This command does not destroy Waypoint resources, such as deployments and
releases. Clear all workspaces prior to uninstall to prevent hanging resources.

If a runner was installed via "waypoint install", the runner will also be
uninstalled. Manually installed runners (outside of the "waypoint install"
command) will not be affected.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-auto-approve` - Auto-approve server uninstallation. If unset, confirmation will be requested. The default is false.
- `-delete-context` - Delete the context for the server once it's uninstalled. The default is true.
- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to uninstall the Waypoint server from.
- `-snapshot-name=<string>` - Filename to write the snapshot to. If no name is specified, by default a timestamp will be appended to the default snapshot name. The default is waypoint-server-snapshot.
- `-snapshot` - Enable or disable taking a snapshot of Waypoint server prior to uninstall. The default is true.
- `-ignore-runner-error` - Ignore any errors encountered while uninstalling runners. This allows the server to be uninstalled even if runner uninstallation fails. Note that this may leave runners dangling since future 'uninstall' runs will do nothing if the server is uninstalled. The default is false.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - Configures the Cluster to uninstall. The default is waypoint-server.
- `-ecs-region=<string>` - Configures which AWS region to uninstall from.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to unisntall the Waypoint server from. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - Namespace in Kubernetes to uninstall the Waypoint server from. The default is default.

@include "commands/server-uninstall_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/server-uninstall.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server uninstall'
sidebar_title: 'server uninstall'
description: 'Uninstall the Waypoint server'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Server uninstall

Command: `waypoint server uninstall`

Uninstall the Waypoint server

@include "commands/server-uninstall_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server uninstall [options]`

Uninstall the Waypoint server. This command is not intended to uninstall a
server that was manually run with the 'waypoint server run' CLI, but with
a Waypoint server that was installed via 'waypoint server install'.

The platform can be specified as kubernetes, nomad, ecs, or docker. If not
specified, the CLI command will attempt to retrieve the platform defined in
the server context.

By default, this command deletes the default server's context and creates
a server snapshot.

This command does not destroy Waypoint resources, such as deployments and
releases. Clear all workspaces prior to uninstall to prevent hanging resources.

If a runner was installed via "waypoint install", the runner will also be
uninstalled. Manually installed runners (outside of the "waypoint install"
command) will not be affected.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-auto-approve` - Auto-approve server uninstallation. If unset, confirmation will be requested. The default is false.
- `-delete-context` - Delete the context for the server once it's uninstalled. The default is true.
- `-platform=<string>` - Platform to uninstall the Waypoint server from.
- `-snapshot-name=<string>` - Filename to write the snapshot to. If no name is specified, by default a timestamp will be appended to the default snapshot name. The default is waypoint-server-snapshot.
- `-snapshot` - Enable or disable taking a snapshot of Waypoint server prior to uninstall. The default is true.
- `-ignore-runner-error` - Ignore any errors encountered while uninstalling runners. This allows the server to be uninstalled even if runner uninstallation fails. Note that this may leave runners dangling since future 'uninstall' runs will do nothing if the server is uninstalled. The default is false.

#### ecs Options

- `-ecs-cluster=<string>` - Configures the Cluster to uninstall. The default is waypoint-server.
- `-ecs-region=<string>` - Configures which AWS region to uninstall from.

#### kubernetes Options

- `-k8s-context=<string>` - The Kubernetes context to unisntall the Waypoint server from. If left unset, Waypoint will use the current Kubernetes context.
- `-k8s-namespace=<string>` - Namespace in Kubernetes to uninstall the Waypoint server from. The default is default.

@include "commands/server-uninstall_more.mdx"
