website/content/commands/server-snapshot.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server snapshot'
sidebar_title: 'server snapshot'
description: 'Write a backup of the server data'
---

# Waypoint Server snapshot

Command: `waypoint server snapshot`

Write a backup of the server data

@include "commands/server-snapshot_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server snapshot [<filename>]`

Generate a snapshot from the current server and write it to a file specified
by the given name. If no name is specified and standard out is not a terminal,
the backup will be written to standard out. Using a name of '-' will force writing
to standard out.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/server-snapshot_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/server-snapshot.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server snapshot'
sidebar_title: 'server snapshot'
description: 'Write a backup of the server data'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Server snapshot

Command: `waypoint server snapshot`

Write a backup of the server data

@include "commands/server-snapshot_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server snapshot [<filename>]`

Generate a snapshot from the current server and write it to a file specified
by the given name. If no name is specified and standard out is not a terminal,
the backup will be written to standard out. Using a name of '-' will force writing
to standard out.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/server-snapshot_more.mdx"
