website/content/commands/server-restore.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server restore'
sidebar_title: 'server restore'
description: 'Stage a snapshot on the current server for data restoration'
---

# Waypoint Server restore

Command: `waypoint server restore`

Stage a snapshot on the current server for data restoration

@include "commands/server-restore_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server restore [-exit] [<filename>]`

Stage a backup snapshot within the current server. The data in the snapshot is not restored
immediately, but rather staged such that on the next server start, it will be restored.

If -exit is passed, the server process will exit after staging the data. This allows a process
monitor to restart the server, where it will see the staged snapshot and restore the data.

If -exit is not passed, an operator must restart the server manually to finish the restoration
process.

The argument should be to a file written previously by 'waypoint server snapshot'.
If no name is specified and standard input is not a terminal, the backup will read from
standard input. Using a name of '-' will force reading from standard input.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-exit` - After restoring, the server should exit so it can be restarted. The default is false.

@include "commands/server-restore_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/server-restore.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Server restore'
sidebar_title: 'server restore'
description: 'Stage a snapshot on the current server for data restoration'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Server restore

Command: `waypoint server restore`

Stage a snapshot on the current server for data restoration

@include "commands/server-restore_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint server restore [-exit] [<filename>]`

Stage a backup snapshot within the current server. The data in the snapshot is not restored
immediately, but rather staged such that on the next server start, it will be restored.

If -exit is passed, the server process will exit after staging the data. This allows a process
monitor to restart the server, where it will see the staged snapshot and restore the data.

If -exit is not passed, an operator must restart the server manually to finish the restoration
process.

The argument should be to a file written previously by 'waypoint server snapshot'.
If no name is specified and standard input is not a terminal, the backup will read from
standard input. Using a name of '-' will force reading from standard input.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-exit` - After restoring, the server should exit so it can be restarted. The default is false.

@include "commands/server-restore_more.mdx"
