website/content/commands/task-cancel.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Task cancel'
sidebar_title: 'task cancel'
description: 'Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task running in Waypoint'
---

# Waypoint Task cancel

Command: `waypoint task cancel`

Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task running in Waypoint

@include "commands/task-cancel_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint task cancel [options] <task-id>`

Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task and all of the jobs associated with it.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-run-job-id=<string>` - Cancel a Task by Run Job Id.

@include "commands/task-cancel_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/task-cancel.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Task cancel'
sidebar_title: 'task cancel'
description: 'Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task running in Waypoint'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Task cancel

Command: `waypoint task cancel`

Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task running in Waypoint

@include "commands/task-cancel_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint task cancel [options] <task-id>`

Cancel an On-Demand Runner Task and all of the jobs associated with it.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Operation Options

- `-label=<key=value>` - Labels to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-local` - True to use a local runner to execute the operation, false to use a remote runner.
  If unset, Waypoint will automatically determine where the operation will occur,
  defaulting to remote if possible.
- `-remote-source=<key=value>` - Override configurations for how remote runners source data. This is specified to the data source type being used in your configuration. This is used for example to set a specific Git ref to run against.
- `-var=<key=value>` - Variable value to set for this operation. Can be specified multiple times.
- `-var-file=<string>` - HCL or JSON file containing variable values to set for this operation. If any "_.auto.wpvars" or "_.auto.wpvars.json" files are present, they will be automatically loaded.

#### Command Options

- `-run-job-id=<string>` - Cancel a Task by Run Job Id.

@include "commands/task-cancel_more.mdx"
