website/content/commands/token-new.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Token new'
sidebar_title: 'token new'
description: 'Request a new token to access the server'
---

# Waypoint Token new

Command: `waypoint token new`

Request a new token to access the server

@include "commands/token-new_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint token new [options]`

Request a new token to log into the server.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/token-new_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/token-new.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Token new'
sidebar_title: 'token new'
description: 'Request a new token to access the server'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Token new

Command: `waypoint token new`

Request a new token to access the server

@include "commands/token-new_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint token new [options]`

Request a new token to log into the server.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

@include "commands/token-new_more.mdx"
