website/content/commands/token-invite.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Token invite'
sidebar_title: 'token invite'
description: 'Request a new invite token.'
---

# Waypoint Token invite

Command: `waypoint token invite`

Request a new invite token.

@include "commands/token-invite_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint token invite [options]`

Request a new invite token. This token can be exchanged for a normal token to login.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-lifetime=<duration>` - How long the invite token will valid for, starting now. The default is 5m0s.

@include "commands/token-invite_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/token-invite.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Token invite'
sidebar_title: 'token invite'
description: 'Request a new invite token.'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint Token invite

Command: `waypoint token invite`

Request a new invite token.

@include "commands/token-invite_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint token invite [options]`

Request a new invite token. This token can be exchanged for a normal token to login.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-lifetime=<duration>` - How long the invite token will valid for, starting now. The default is 5m0s.

@include "commands/token-invite_more.mdx"
