website/content/commands/user-modify.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: User modify'
sidebar_title: 'user modify'
description: 'Modify details about a user'
---

# Waypoint User modify

Command: `waypoint user modify`

Modify details about a user

@include "commands/user-modify_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint user modify [options]`

Modify details about a user.

Some details such as username and display name may be updated.
Use "waypoint user inspect" to see the current attributes for a user.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-username=<string>` - The user to modify. This defaults to the currently logged in user.
- `-new-username=<string>` - Set a new username for this user. This must be unique to the server.
- `-display-name=<string>` - The display name for a user. If this is set, this is used in some places in the CLI and UI. This does not have to be unique.

@include "commands/user-modify_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/user-modify.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: User modify'
sidebar_title: 'user modify'
description: 'Modify details about a user'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint User modify

Command: `waypoint user modify`

Modify details about a user

@include "commands/user-modify_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint user modify [options]`

Modify details about a user.

Some details such as username and display name may be updated.
Use "waypoint user inspect" to see the current attributes for a user.

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-username=<string>` - The user to modify. This defaults to the currently logged in user.
- `-new-username=<string>` - Set a new username for this user. This must be unique to the server.
- `-display-name=<string>` - The display name for a user. If this is set, this is used in some places in the CLI and UI. This does not have to be unique.

@include "commands/user-modify_more.mdx"
