website/content/commands/user-token.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: User token'
sidebar_title: 'user token'
description: 'Request a new token to access the server'
---

# Waypoint User token

Command: `waypoint user token`

Request a new token to access the server

@include "commands/user-token_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint user token [options]`

Request a new login token for a user.

You must be logged in already to generate a token. If you need to
log in, use the "waypoint login" command.

This generates a new token that can be used to authenticate directly
to the Waypoint server. If you're inviting a new user to Waypoint,
its recommended to generate an invite token with "waypoint user invite"
or share the UI URL for logging in.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-expires-in=<duration>` - The duration until the token expires. i.e. '5m'. The default is 720h0m0s.
- `-username=<string>` - Username to generate the login token for. This defaults to the currently logged in user.
- `-trigger-url-token` - Will generate a trigger auth token. This token can only be used for trigger URL actions. The default is false.

@include "commands/user-token_more.mdx"

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/commands/user-token.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: User token'
sidebar_title: 'user token'
description: 'Request a new token to access the server'
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Waypoint User token

Command: `waypoint user token`

Request a new token to access the server

@include "commands/user-token_desc.mdx"

## Usage

Usage: `waypoint user token [options]`

Request a new login token for a user.

You must be logged in already to generate a token. If you need to
log in, use the "waypoint login" command.

This generates a new token that can be used to authenticate directly
to the Waypoint server. If you're inviting a new user to Waypoint,
its recommended to generate an invite token with "waypoint user invite"
or share the UI URL for logging in.

The "waypoint token" commands are deprecated. They have been replaced with
the "waypoint user" set of commands. Everything that was possible with
"waypoint token" is now possible with "waypoint user". For example,
"waypoint token new" is now "waypoint user token".

#### Global Options

- `-plain` - Plain output: no colors, no animation. The default is false.
- `-app=<string>` (`-a`) - App to target. Certain commands require a single app target for Waypoint configurations with multiple apps. If you have a single app, then this can be ignored.
- `-project=<string>` (`-p`) - Project to target.
- `-workspace=<string>` (`-w`) - Workspace to operate in.

#### Command Options

- `-expires-in=<duration>` - The duration until the token expires. i.e. '5m'. The default is 720h0m0s.
- `-username=<string>` - Username to generate the login token for. This defaults to the currently logged in user.
- `-trigger-url-token` - Will generate a trigger auth token. This token can only be used for trigger URL actions. The default is false.

@include "commands/user-token_more.mdx"
