website/content/partials/components/configsourcer-vault.mdx, before:

## vault (configsourcer)

Read configuration values from Vault.

### Examples

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DATABASE_USERNAME" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "database/creds/my-role"
      key = "username"
    })

    "DATABASE_PASSWORD" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "database/creds/my-role"
      key = "password"
    })

    # KV Version 2
    "PASSWORD_FOO" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "secret/data/my-secret"
      key = "/data/password"  # key must be prefixed with "/data" (see below)
    })

    # KV Version 1
    "PASSWORD_BAR" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "kv1/my-secret"
      key = "password"
    })
  }
}
```

### Required Parameters

These parameters are used in `dynamic` for sourcing [configuration values](/docs/app-config/dynamic) or [input variable values](/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic).

#### key

The key name that exists at the specified Vault `path` parameter.

The value can be a direct key such as `password` or it can be a [JSON pointer](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) string to retrieve a nested value. When using the Vault KV [Version 2](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v2) secret backend, the key must be prefixed with an additional string of `/data`. For example, `/data/password`. When using the Vault KV [Version 1](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v1) secret backend, the key can be a direct key name such as `password`. This is because the Vault KV API returns different data structures in its response depending on the Vault KV version the key is stored in. Therefore, the `/data` prefix is required for keys stored in the Vault KV `Version 2` secret backend in order to retrieve its nested value using JSON pointer string.

- Type: **string**

#### path

The Vault path to read the secret.

Within a single application, multiple dynamic values that use the same path will only read the value once. This allows multiple keys from a single secret to be extracted into multiple values. The example above shows this functionality by reading the username and password into separate values. When using the Vault KV secret backend, the path is usually `<mount>/data/<key>`. For example, if you wrote data with `vault kv put secret/myapp` then the key for Waypoint must be `secret/data/myapp`. This can be confusing but is caused by the fact that the Vault API is what Waypoint uses and the Vault CLI does this automatically for KV.

- Type: **string**

### Optional Parameters

This plugin has no optional parameters.

### Source Parameters

The parameters below are used with `waypoint config source-set` to configure
the behavior this plugin. These are _not_ used in `dynamic` calls. The
parameters used for `dynamic` are in the previous section.

#### Required Source Parameters

This plugin has no required source parameters.

#### Optional Source Parameters

##### addr

The address to the Vault server.

If this is not set, the VAULT_ADDR environment variable will be read.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_ADDR**

##### agent_addr

The address to the Vault agent.

If this is not set, Vault agent will not be used. This should only be set if you're deploying to an environment with a Vault agent.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_AGENT_ADDR**

##### auth_method

The authentication method to use for Vault.

This can be one of: `aws`, `kubernetes`. When this is set, configuration fields prefixed with the auth method type should be set, if required. Configuration fields prefixed with non-matching auth method types will be ignored (except for type validation). If no auth method is set, Vault assumes proper environment variables are set for Vault to find and connect to the Vault server. When this is set, `auth_method_mount_path` is required.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### auth_method_mount_path

The path where the configured auth method is mounted in Vault.

This is required when `auth_method` is set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_access_key

The access key to use for authentication to the IAM service, if needed.

This usually isn't needed since IAM instance profiles are used.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_credential_poll_interval

The interval in seconds to wait before checking for new credentials.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 60

##### aws_header_value

The value to match the [`iam_server_id_header_value`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/auth/aws#iam_server_id_header_value) if set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_region

The region for the STS endpoint when using that method of auth.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: us-east-1

##### aws_role

The role to use for AWS authentication.

This is required for the `aws` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [AWS Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_secret_key

The secret key to use for authentication to the IAM service, if needed.

This usually isn't needed since IAM instance profiles are used.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_type

The type of authentication to use for AWS: either `iam` or `ec2`.

This is required for the `aws` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [AWS Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### ca_cert

The path to a PEM-encoded CA cert file to use to verify the Vault server SSL certificate.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CACERT**

##### ca_path

The path to a directory of PEM-encoded CA cert files to verify the Vault server SSL certificate.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CAPATH**

##### client_cert

The path to a PEM-encoded certificate to present as a client certificate.

This only needs to be set if Vault is configured to expect a client cert.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CLIENT_CERT**

##### client_key

The path to a private key for the client cert.

This only needs to be set if Vault is configured to expect a client cert.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CLIENT_KEY**

##### gcp_credentials

When using static credentials, the contents of the JSON credentials file.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_jwt_exp

The number of minutes a generated JWT should be valid for when using the iam method.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 15

##### gcp_project

The project to use, only if it cannot be automatically determined.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_role

The role to use for GCP authentication.

This is required for the `gcp` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [GCP Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/gcp).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_service_account

The service account to use, only if it cannot be automatically determined.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_type

The type of authentication; must be `gce` or `iam`.

This is required for the `gcp` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [GCP Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/gcp).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### kubernetes_role

The role to use for Kubernetes authentication.

This is required for the `kubernetes` auth method. This is a role that is setup with the [Kubernetes Auth Method in Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### kubernetes_token_path

The path to the Kubernetes service account token.

In standard Kubernetes environments, this doesn't have to be set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token

##### namespace

Default namespace to operate in if you're using Vault namespaces.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_NAMESPACE**

##### skip_verify

Do not validate the TLS cert presented by the Vault server.

This is not recommended unless absolutely necessary.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY**

##### tls_server_name

The TLS server name to verify with the Vault server.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME**

##### token

The token to use for communicating to Vault.

If you're using a Vault Agent or an `auth_method`, this may not be necessary. If you're using an `auth_method`, this may still be necessary as a minimal token with access to the auth method, but usually these are not protected.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_TOKEN**

Commit message:

feat: add support for approle auth method to Vault config sourcer plugin.

website/content/partials/components/configsourcer-vault.mdx, after:

## vault (configsourcer)

Read configuration values from Vault.

### Examples

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    "DATABASE_USERNAME" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "database/creds/my-role"
      key = "username"
    })

    "DATABASE_PASSWORD" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "database/creds/my-role"
      key = "password"
    })

    # KV Version 2
    "PASSWORD_FOO" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "secret/data/my-secret"
      key = "/data/password"  # key must be prefixed with "/data" (see below)
    })

    # KV Version 1
    "PASSWORD_BAR" = dynamic("vault", {
      path = "kv1/my-secret"
      key = "password"
    })
  }
}
```

### Required Parameters

These parameters are used in `dynamic` for sourcing [configuration values](/docs/app-config/dynamic) or [input variable values](/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic).

#### key

The key name that exists at the specified Vault `path` parameter.

The value can be a direct key such as `password` or it can be a [JSON pointer](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) string to retrieve a nested value. When using the Vault KV [Version 2](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v2) secret backend, the key must be prefixed with an additional string of `/data`. For example, `/data/password`. When using the Vault KV [Version 1](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v1) secret backend, the key can be a direct key name such as `password`. This is because the Vault KV API returns different data structures in its response depending on the Vault KV version the key is stored in. Therefore, the `/data` prefix is required for keys stored in the Vault KV `Version 2` secret backend in order to retrieve its nested value using JSON pointer string.

- Type: **string**

#### path

The Vault path to read the secret.

Within a single application, multiple dynamic values that use the same path will only read the value once. This allows multiple keys from a single secret to be extracted into multiple values. The example above shows this functionality by reading the username and password into separate values. When using the Vault KV secret backend, the path is usually `<mount>/data/<key>`. For example, if you wrote data with `vault kv put secret/myapp` then the key for Waypoint must be `secret/data/myapp`. This can be confusing but is caused by the fact that the Vault API is what Waypoint uses and the Vault CLI does this automatically for KV.

- Type: **string**

### Optional Parameters

This plugin has no optional parameters.

### Source Parameters

The parameters below are used with `waypoint config source-set` to configure
the behavior this plugin. These are _not_ used in `dynamic` calls. The
parameters used for `dynamic` are in the previous section.

#### Required Source Parameters

This plugin has no required source parameters.

#### Optional Source Parameters

##### addr

The address to the Vault server.

If this is not set, the VAULT_ADDR environment variable will be read.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_ADDR**

##### agent_addr

The address to the Vault agent.

If this is not set, Vault agent will not be used. This should only be set if you're deploying to an environment with a Vault agent.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_AGENT_ADDR**

##### approle_role_id

The role ID of the approle auth method to use for Vault.

This is required for the `approle` auth method.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### approle_secret_id

The secret ID of the approle auth method to use for Vault.

This is required for the `approle` auth method.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### auth_method

The authentication method to use for Vault.

This can be one of: `aws`, `approle`, `kubernetes`, `gcp`. When this is set, configuration fields prefixed with the auth method type should be set, if required. Configuration fields prefixed with non-matching auth method types will be ignored (except for type validation). If no auth method is set, Vault assumes proper environment variables are set for Vault to find and connect to the Vault server. When this is set, `auth_method_mount_path` is required.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### auth_method_mount_path

The path where the configured auth method is mounted in Vault.

This is required when `auth_method` is set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_access_key

The access key to use for authentication to the IAM service, if needed.

This usually isn't needed since IAM instance profiles are used.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_credential_poll_interval

The interval in seconds to wait before checking for new credentials.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 60

##### aws_header_value

The value to match the [`iam_server_id_header_value`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/auth/aws#iam_server_id_header_value) if set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_region

The region for the STS endpoint when using that method of auth.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: us-east-1

##### aws_role

The role to use for AWS authentication.

This is required for the `aws` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [AWS Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_secret_key

The secret key to use for authentication to the IAM service, if needed.

This usually isn't needed since IAM instance profiles are used.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### aws_type

The type of authentication to use for AWS: either `iam` or `ec2`.

This is required for the `aws` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [AWS Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### ca_cert

The path to a PEM-encoded CA cert file to use to verify the Vault server SSL certificate.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CACERT**

##### ca_path

The path to a directory of PEM-encoded CA cert files to verify the Vault server SSL certificate.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CAPATH**

##### client_cert

The path to a PEM-encoded certificate to present as a client certificate.

This only needs to be set if Vault is configured to expect a client cert.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CLIENT_CERT**

##### client_key

The path to a private key for the client cert.

This only needs to be set if Vault is configured to expect a client cert.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_CLIENT_KEY**

##### gcp_credentials

When using static credentials, the contents of the JSON credentials file.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_jwt_exp

The number of minutes a generated JWT should be valid for when using the iam method.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**
- Default: 15

##### gcp_project

The project to use, only if it cannot be automatically determined.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_role

The role to use for GCP authentication.

This is required for the `gcp` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [GCP Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/gcp).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_service_account

The service account to use, only if it cannot be automatically determined.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### gcp_type

The type of authentication; must be `gce` or `iam`.

This is required for the `gcp` auth method. This depends on how you configured the Vault [GCP Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/gcp).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### kubernetes_role

The role to use for Kubernetes authentication.

This is required for the `kubernetes` auth method. This is a role that is setup with the [Kubernetes Auth Method in Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes).

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### kubernetes_token_path

The path to the Kubernetes service account token.

In standard Kubernetes environments, this doesn't have to be set.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token

##### namespace

Default namespace to operate in if you're using Vault namespaces.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_NAMESPACE**

##### skip_verify

Do not validate the TLS cert presented by the Vault server.

This is not recommended unless absolutely necessary.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY**

##### tls_server_name

The TLS server name to verify with the Vault server.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME**

##### token

The token to use for communicating to Vault.

If you're using a Vault Agent or an `auth_method`, this may not be necessary. If you're using an `auth_method`, this may still be necessary as a minimal token with access to the auth method, but usually these are not protected.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Environment Variable: **VAULT_TOKEN**
