website/content/partials/components/platform-aws-ecs.mdx, before:

## aws-ecs (platform)

Deploy the application into an ECS cluster on AWS.

### Interface

- Input: **docker.Image**
- Output: **ecs.Deployment**

### Examples

```hcl
deploy {
  use "aws-ecs" {
    region = "us-east-1"
    memory = 512
  }
}
```

### Required Parameters

These parameters are used in the [`use` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use) for this plugin.

#### health_check (category)

Health check settings for the app.

These settings configure a health check for the application target group.

- **Optional**

##### health_check.grpc_code

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.healthy_threshold_count

The number of consecutive successful health checks required toconsider a target healthy.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 5

##### health_check.http_code

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.interval

The amount of time, in seconds, between health checks.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 30

##### health_check.matcher

The range of HTTP codes to use when checking for a successful response fromthe target.

##### health_check.path

The destination of the ping path for the target health check.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.protocol

The protocol for the health check to use.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: HTTP

##### health_check.timeout

The amount of time, in seconds, for which no target response means a failure. Must be lower than the interval.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 5

##### health_check.unhealthy_threshold_count

The number of consecutive failed health checks required to consider a target unhealthy.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

#### logging (category)

Provides additional configuration for logging flags for ECS.

Part of the ecs task definition. These configuration flags help control how the awslogs log driver is configured.

- **Optional**

##### logging.create_group

Enables creation of the aws logs group if not present.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### logging.datetime_format

Defines the multiline start pattern in Python strftime format.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.max_buffer_size

When using non-blocking logging mode, this is the buffer size for message storage.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.mode

Delivery method for log messages, either 'blocking' or 'non-blocking'.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.multiline_pattern

Defines the multiline start pattern using a regular expression.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.region

The region the logs are to be shipped to.

##### logging.stream_prefix

Prefix for application in cloudwatch logs path.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: Generated based off timestamp

#### memory

How much memory to assign to the container running the application.

When running in Fargate, this must be one of a few values, specified in MB: 512, 1024, 2048, 3072, 4096, 5120, and up to 16384 in increments of 1024. The memory value also controls the possible values for cpu.

- Type: **int**

#### region

The AWS region for the ECS cluster.

- Type: **string**

#### sidecar (category)

Additional container to run as a sidecar.

This runs additional containers in addition to the main container that comes from the build phase.

##### sidecar.container_port

The port number for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.health_check

- Type: **ecs.HealthCheckConfig**

##### sidecar.host_port

The port number on the host to reserve for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.image

Image of the sidecar container.

- Type: **string**

##### sidecar.memory

The amount (in MiB) of memory to present to the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.memory_reservation

The soft limit (in MiB) of memory to reserve for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.name

Name of the container.

- Type: **string**

##### sidecar.protocol

The protocol used for port mapping.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.secrets

Secrets to expose to this container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.static_environment

Environment variables to expose to this container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

### Optional Parameters

These parameters are used in the [`use` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use) for this plugin.

#### alb (category)

Provides additional configuration for using an ALB with ECS.

- **Optional**

##### alb.certificate

The ARN of an AWS Certificate Manager cert to associate with the ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.domain_name

Fully qualified domain name to set for the ALB.

Set along with zone_id to have DNS automatically setup for the ALB. this value should include the full hostname and domain name, for instance app.example.com.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.ingress_port

Internet-facing traffic port. Defaults to 80 if 'certificate' is unset, 443 if set.

Used to set the ALB listener port, and the ALB security group ingress port.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**

##### alb.internal

Whether or not the created ALB should be internal.

Used when listener_arn is not set. If set, the created ALB will have a scheme of `internal`, otherwise by default it has a scheme of `internet-facing`.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### alb.load_balancer_arn

The ARN on an existing ALB to configure.

When this is set, Waypoint will use this ALB instead of creating its own. A target group will still be created for each deployment, and will be added to a listener on the configured ALB port (Waypoint will the listener if it doesn't exist). This allows users to configure their ALB outside Waypoint but still have Waypoint hook the application to that ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.security_group_ids

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.subnets

The VPC subnets to use for the ALB.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**
- Default: public subnets in the default VPC

##### alb.zone_id

Route53 ZoneID to create a DNS record into.

Set along with alb.domain_name to have DNS automatically setup for the ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### architecture

The instruction set CPU architecture that the Amazon ECS supports. Valid values are: "x86_64", "arm64".

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### assign_public_ip

Assign a public ip address to tasks. Defaults to true. Ignored if using an ec2 cluster.

If this is set to false, deployments will fail unless tasks are able to egress to the container registry by some other means (i.e. a subnet default route to a NAT gateway).

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**
- Default: true

#### cluster

The name of the ECS cluster to deploy into.

The ECS cluster that will run the application as a Service. if there is no ECS cluster with this name, the ECS cluster will be created and configured to use Fargate to run containers.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### count

How many instances of the application should run.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### cpu

How many cpu shares the container running the application is allowed.

On Fargate, possible values for this are configured by the amount of memory the container is using. Here is a complete listing of possible values: 512MB: 256
1024MB: 256, 512
2048MB: 256, 512, 1024
3072MB: 512, 1024
4096MB: 512, 1024
5120MB: 1024
6144MB: 1024
7168MB: 1024
8192MB: 1024.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### disable_alb

Do not create a load balancer assigned to the service.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

#### ec2_cluster

Indicate if the ECS cluster should be EC2 type rather than Fargate.

This controls if we should verify the ECS cluster in EC2 type. The cluster will not be created if it doesn't exist, only that there as existing cluster this is using EC2 and not Fargate.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

#### execution_role_name

The name of the IAM role to use for ECS execution.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: create a new execution IAM role based on the application name

#### log_group

The CloudWatchLogs log group to store container logs into.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: derived from the application name

#### memory_reservation

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### secrets

Secret key/values to pass to the ECS container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

#### security_group_ids

Security Group IDs of existing security groups to use for the ECS service's network access.

List of existing group IDs to use for the ECS service's network access. If none are specified, waypoint will create one. If DisableALB is false (the default), waypoint will only allow ingress from the ALB's security group.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

#### service_port

The TCP port that the application is listening on.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 3000

#### static_environment

Static environment variables to make available.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

#### subnets

The VPC subnets to use for the service.

You may set a list of private subnets here to prevent your tasks from being directly exposed publicly.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**
- Default: public subnets in the default VPC

#### task_role_name

The name of the task IAM role to assign.

If no role exists and a one or more task role policies are requested, a role with this name will be created.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### task_role_policy_arns

IAM Policy arns for attaching to the task role.

If no task role name is specified a task role with a default name will be created for this app, and these policies will be attached.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

### Output Attributes

Output attributes can be used in your `waypoint.hcl` as [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables) via [`artifact`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact) or [`deploy`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/deploy).

#### cluster

- Type: **string**

#### listener_arn

- Type: **string**

#### load_balancer_arn

- Type: **string**

#### resource_state

- Type: **opaqueany.Any**

#### service_arn

- Type: **string**

#### target_group_arn

- Type: **string**

#### task_arn

- Type: **string**

#### url

- Type: **string**

Commit message:

docs: ECS target group options.

website/content/partials/components/platform-aws-ecs.mdx, after:

## aws-ecs (platform)

Deploy the application into an ECS cluster on AWS.

### Interface

- Input: **docker.Image**
- Output: **ecs.Deployment**

### Examples

```hcl
deploy {
  use "aws-ecs" {
    region = "us-east-1"
    memory = 512
  }
}
```

### Required Parameters

These parameters are used in the [`use` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use) for this plugin.

#### health_check (category)

Health check settings for the app.

These settings configure a health check for the application target group.

- **Optional**

##### health_check.grpc_code

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.healthy_threshold_count

The number of consecutive successful health checks required toconsider a target healthy.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 5

##### health_check.http_code

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.interval

The amount of time, in seconds, between health checks.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 30

##### health_check.matcher

The range of HTTP codes to use when checking for a successful response fromthe target.

##### health_check.path

The destination of the ping path for the target health check.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### health_check.protocol

The protocol for the health check to use.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: HTTP

##### health_check.timeout

The amount of time, in seconds, for which no target response means a failure. Must be lower than the interval.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 5

##### health_check.unhealthy_threshold_count

The number of consecutive failed health checks required to consider a target unhealthy.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 2

#### logging (category)

Provides additional configuration for logging flags for ECS.

Part of the ecs task definition. These configuration flags help control how the awslogs log driver is configured.

- **Optional**

##### logging.create_group

Enables creation of the aws logs group if not present.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### logging.datetime_format

Defines the multiline start pattern in Python strftime format.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.max_buffer_size

When using non-blocking logging mode, this is the buffer size for message storage.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.mode

Delivery method for log messages, either 'blocking' or 'non-blocking'.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.multiline_pattern

Defines the multiline start pattern using a regular expression.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### logging.region

The region the logs are to be shipped to.

##### logging.stream_prefix

Prefix for application in cloudwatch logs path.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: Generated based off timestamp

#### memory

How much memory to assign to the container running the application.

When running in Fargate, this must be one of a few values, specified in MB: 512, 1024, 2048, 3072, 4096, 5120, and up to 16384 in increments of 1024. The memory value also controls the possible values for cpu.

- Type: **int**

#### region

The AWS region for the ECS cluster.

- Type: **string**

#### sidecar (category)

Additional container to run as a sidecar.

This runs additional containers in addition to the main container that comes from the build phase.

##### sidecar.container_port

The port number for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.health_check

- Type: **ecs.HealthCheckConfig**

##### sidecar.host_port

The port number on the host to reserve for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.image

Image of the sidecar container.

- Type: **string**

##### sidecar.memory

The amount (in MiB) of memory to present to the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.memory_reservation

The soft limit (in MiB) of memory to reserve for the container.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.name

Name of the container.

- Type: **string**

##### sidecar.protocol

The protocol used for port mapping.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.secrets

Secrets to expose to this container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

##### sidecar.static_environment

Environment variables to expose to this container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

### Optional Parameters

These parameters are used in the [`use` stanza](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use) for this plugin.

#### alb (category)

Provides additional configuration for using an ALB with ECS.

- **Optional**

##### alb.certificate

The ARN of an AWS Certificate Manager cert to associate with the ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.domain_name

Fully qualified domain name to set for the ALB.

Set along with zone_id to have DNS automatically setup for the ALB. this value should include the full hostname and domain name, for instance app.example.com.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.ingress_port

Internet-facing traffic port. Defaults to 80 if 'certificate' is unset, 443 if set.

Used to set the ALB listener port, and the ALB security group ingress port.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**

##### alb.internal

Whether or not the created ALB should be internal.

Used when listener_arn is not set. If set, the created ALB will have a scheme of `internal`, otherwise by default it has a scheme of `internet-facing`.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

##### alb.load_balancer_arn

The ARN on an existing ALB to configure.

When this is set, Waypoint will use this ALB instead of creating its own. A target group will still be created for each deployment, and will be added to a listener on the configured ALB port (Waypoint will the listener if it doesn't exist). This allows users to configure their ALB outside Waypoint but still have Waypoint hook the application to that ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.security_group_ids

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

##### alb.subnets

The VPC subnets to use for the ALB.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**
- Default: public subnets in the default VPC

##### alb.zone_id

Route53 ZoneID to create a DNS record into.

Set along with alb.domain_name to have DNS automatically setup for the ALB.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### architecture

The instruction set CPU architecture that the Amazon ECS supports. Valid values are: "x86_64", "arm64".

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### assign_public_ip

Assign a public ip address to tasks. Defaults to true. Ignored if using an ec2 cluster.

If this is set to false, deployments will fail unless tasks are able to egress to the container registry by some other means (i.e. a subnet default route to a NAT gateway).

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**
- Default: true

#### cluster

The name of the ECS cluster to deploy into.

The ECS cluster that will run the application as a Service. if there is no ECS cluster with this name, the ECS cluster will be created and configured to use Fargate to run containers.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### count

How many instances of the application should run.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### cpu

How many cpu shares the container running the application is allowed.

On Fargate, possible values for this are configured by the amount of memory the container is using. Here is a complete listing of possible values: 512MB: 256
1024MB: 256, 512
2048MB: 256, 512, 1024
3072MB: 512, 1024
4096MB: 512, 1024
5120MB: 1024
6144MB: 1024
7168MB: 1024
8192MB: 1024.

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### disable_alb

Do not create a load balancer assigned to the service.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

#### ec2_cluster

Indicate if the ECS cluster should be EC2 type rather than Fargate.

This controls if we should verify the ECS cluster in EC2 type. The cluster will not be created if it doesn't exist, only that there as existing cluster this is using EC2 and not Fargate.

- Type: **bool**
- **Optional**

#### execution_role_name

The name of the IAM role to use for ECS execution.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: create a new execution IAM role based on the application name

#### log_group

The CloudWatchLogs log group to store container logs into.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: derived from the application name

#### memory_reservation

- Type: **int**
- **Optional**

#### secrets

Secret key/values to pass to the ECS container.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

#### security_group_ids

Security Group IDs of existing security groups to use for the ECS service's network access.

List of existing group IDs to use for the ECS service's network access. If none are specified, waypoint will create one. If DisableALB is false (the default), waypoint will only allow ingress from the ALB's security group.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

#### service_port

The TCP port that the application is listening on.

- Type: **int64**
- **Optional**
- Default: 3000

#### static_environment

Static environment variables to make available.

- Type: **map of string to string**
- **Optional**

#### subnets

The VPC subnets to use for the service.

You may set a list of private subnets here to prevent your tasks from being directly exposed publicly.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**
- Default: public subnets in the default VPC

#### target_group_protocol

The protocol to use for routing traffic to the targets.

The protocol to use for routing traffic to the targets. For Application Load Balancers, the supported protocols are HTTP and HTTPS. For Network Load Balancers, the supported protocols are TCP, TLS, UDP, or TCP_UDP. For Gateway Load Balancers, the supported protocol is GENEVE. A TCP_UDP listener must be associated with a TCP_UDP target group. If the target is a Lambda function, this parameter does not apply.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**
- Default: HTTP

#### target_group_protocol_version

The version of the protocol to use for routing traffic to the targets.

[HTTP/HTTPS protocol] The protocol version. Specify GRPC to send requests to targets using gRPC. Specify HTTP2 to send requests to targets using HTTP/2. The default is HTTP1, which sends requests to targets using HTTP/1.1.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### task_role_name

The name of the task IAM role to assign.

If no role exists and a one or more task role policies are requested, a role with this name will be created.

- Type: **string**
- **Optional**

#### task_role_policy_arns

IAM Policy arns for attaching to the task role.

If no task role name is specified a task role with a default name will be created for this app, and these policies will be attached.

- Type: **list of string**
- **Optional**

### Output Attributes

Output attributes can be used in your `waypoint.hcl` as [variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables) via [`artifact`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact) or [`deploy`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/deploy).

#### cluster

- Type: **string**

#### listener_arn

- Type: **string**

#### load_balancer_arn

- Type: **string**

#### resource_state

- Type: **opaqueany.Any**

#### service_arn

- Type: **string**

#### target_group_arn

- Type: **string**

#### task_arn

- Type: **string**

#### url

- Type: **string**
