website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/build-interface.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Implementing the Builder Interface'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

# Implementing the `Builder` Interface

Video tutorial below:

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=583&end=1082"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

Once the optional configuration has been completed, you can then implement the `BuildFunc` method as defined on the
`Builder` interface. `BuildFunc` has a single return parameter which is an interface representing a function called by
Waypoint when running the `waypoint build` command.

```go
BuildFunc() interface{}
```

The function to be called does not strictly correspond to any signature for the input parameters. Waypoint functions
have their parameters dynamically injected at runtime. The list of available parameters can be found in the
[Default Parameters](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/default-parameters) documentation.

While you can choose the input parameters for your `BuildFunc`, Waypoint enforces specific output parameters. These
return parameters must be of types `proto.Message`, and `error`. The `proto.Message` is a struct which implements the
Protocol Buffers `Message` interface (github.com/golang/protobuf/proto). Waypoint uses Protocol Buffers to pass messages
between the different stages of the workflow and serialize data to the internal data store. The error, which is the
second part of the tuple, determines if your build stage has succeeded or failed.

The default function created by the template, has created a `BuildFunc` which looks like the following example:

```go
func (b *Builder) build(ctx context.Context, ui terminal.UI) (*Binary, error) {
	u := ui.Status()
	defer u.Close()
	u.Update("Building application")

	return &Binary{}, nil
}
```

This function contains the following input parameters:

- `context.Context` - Used to check if the server has canceled the build.
- `terminal.UI` - Used to write output and request input from the Waypoint CLI.

The output parameters are defined as:

- `*Binary` - Generated struct from `output.proto`
- `error` - Returning a non-nil error terminates execution and presents the error to the user.

## Output Values

Output Values such as `Binary` in Waypoint plugins need to be serializable to Protocol Buffer binary format. To enable
this, you do not directly define the Go struct. Instead, you describe this as a Protocol Buffer message and use the
`protoc` command to generate the code. If you take a look at the `output.proto` file, you will see the following message
defined.

```go
message Binary {
  string location = 1;
}
```

When the `protoc` command runs, it generates Go code from this Protocol Buffer definition. You can see the output of
this in the `output.pb.go` file:

```go
type Binary struct {
	state         protoimpl.MessageState
	sizeCache     protoimpl.SizeCache
	unknownFields protoimpl.UnknownFields

	Path string `protobuf:"bytes,1,opt,name=path,proto3" json:"path,omitempty"`
}
```

For this guide, you do not need to change `Binary`; however, if you would like to learn more about passing values
between components, please see the
[specific documentation](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/passing-values).

## Creating the Build Process

Let’s look at the implementation of the `build` method. You will need to provide status updates to the user of your
plugin. To do this, you can use `terminal.UI`; this allows you to write output to the terminal using a common UX across
all Waypoint plugins.

```go
  u := ui.Status()
  defer u.Close()

  u.Update("Building application")
```

The method `ui.Status()` requests a live updating status; you use this to write updates to the Waypoint terminal output.
When finished with `Status` you should always close a Status, using`u.Close()`; this ensures that the status is updated
correctly in the terminal. Finally, in the example, the Status is updated with the message "Building application".
Unlike a scrolling log output, Waypoint allows the user to focus on the critical information at the current time. The
`terminal.Status` allows you to replace content already written to the terminal, which may no longer be relevant.

After the `Update` call, let's add some code to the `build` method, which will set the configuration's defaults if they
are not set.

```go
  // setup the defaults
  if b.config.OutputName == "" {
    b.config.OutputName = "app"
  }

  if b.config.Source == "" {
    b.config.Source = "./"
  }
```

Now all the defaults are set up; you can add the code which will build the application. Because the plugin runs in your
current user space, you can use the Go standard library exec package to shell out a process and run `go build`. Set the
values from the config for the source and the application name, and finally, run the command.

```go
c := exec.Command(
     "go",
     "build",
     "-o",
     b.config.OutputName,
     b.config.Source,
)

err := c.Run()
```

## Writing to the Terminal Output

If an error occurs during the build process, you can update the terminal output to show a failure message. The error
returned from the function will also be output to the terminal by Waypoint. The `Step` command can be used to write the status
of the current component if an error occurs during the build command by calling the `Step` method.

Add the following code to your `build` function after the `Run` method.

```go
if err != nil {
  u.Step(terminal.StatusError, "Build failed")

  return nil, err
}
```

Would result in the terminal output shown to the user like:

```shell
» Building...
x Build failed
```

Finally, if the build succeeds, you can update the status and return the `proto.Message` that can be passed to the next
step. Add the following code to your `build` function after the error check.

```go
  u.Step(terminal.StatusOK, "Application built successfully")

  return &Binary{
    Location: path.Join(b.config.Source, b.config.OutputName),
  }, nil
```

The code for the plugin is now complete; let's see how to build and test it.

[Next - Compiling the Plugin](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/compiling)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/build-interface.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Implementing the Builder Interface'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Implementing the `Builder` Interface

Video tutorial below:

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=583&end=1082"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

Once the optional configuration has been completed, you can then implement the `BuildFunc` method as defined on the
`Builder` interface. `BuildFunc` has a single return parameter which is an interface representing a function called by
Waypoint when running the `waypoint build` command.

```go
BuildFunc() interface{}
```

The function to be called does not strictly correspond to any signature for the input parameters. Waypoint functions
have their parameters dynamically injected at runtime. The list of available parameters can be found in the
[Default Parameters](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-interfaces/default-parameters) documentation.

While you can choose the input parameters for your `BuildFunc`, Waypoint enforces specific output parameters. These
return parameters must be of types `proto.Message`, and `error`. The `proto.Message` is a struct which implements the
Protocol Buffers `Message` interface (github.com/golang/protobuf/proto). Waypoint uses Protocol Buffers to pass messages
between the different stages of the workflow and serialize data to the internal data store. The error, which is the
second part of the tuple, determines if your build stage has succeeded or failed.

The default function created by the template, has created a `BuildFunc` which looks like the following example:

```go
func (b *Builder) build(ctx context.Context, ui terminal.UI) (*Binary, error) {
	u := ui.Status()
	defer u.Close()
	u.Update("Building application")

	return &Binary{}, nil
}
```

This function contains the following input parameters:

- `context.Context` - Used to check if the server has canceled the build.
- `terminal.UI` - Used to write output and request input from the Waypoint CLI.

The output parameters are defined as:

- `*Binary` - Generated struct from `output.proto`
- `error` - Returning a non-nil error terminates execution and presents the error to the user.

## Output Values

Output Values such as `Binary` in Waypoint plugins need to be serializable to Protocol Buffer binary format. To enable
this, you do not directly define the Go struct. Instead, you describe this as a Protocol Buffer message and use the
`protoc` command to generate the code. If you take a look at the `output.proto` file, you will see the following message
defined.

```go
message Binary {
  string location = 1;
}
```

When the `protoc` command runs, it generates Go code from this Protocol Buffer definition. You can see the output of
this in the `output.pb.go` file:

```go
type Binary struct {
	state         protoimpl.MessageState
	sizeCache     protoimpl.SizeCache
	unknownFields protoimpl.UnknownFields

	Path string `protobuf:"bytes,1,opt,name=path,proto3" json:"path,omitempty"`
}
```

For this guide, you do not need to change `Binary`; however, if you would like to learn more about passing values
between components, please see the
[specific documentation](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/passing-values).

## Creating the Build Process

Let’s look at the implementation of the `build` method. You will need to provide status updates to the user of your
plugin. To do this, you can use `terminal.UI`; this allows you to write output to the terminal using a common UX across
all Waypoint plugins.

```go
  u := ui.Status()
  defer u.Close()

  u.Update("Building application")
```

The method `ui.Status()` requests a live updating status; you use this to write updates to the Waypoint terminal output.
When finished with `Status` you should always close a Status, using`u.Close()`; this ensures that the status is updated
correctly in the terminal. Finally, in the example, the Status is updated with the message "Building application".
Unlike a scrolling log output, Waypoint allows the user to focus on the critical information at the current time. The
`terminal.Status` allows you to replace content already written to the terminal, which may no longer be relevant.

After the `Update` call, let's add some code to the `build` method, which will set the configuration's defaults if they
are not set.

```go
  // setup the defaults
  if b.config.OutputName == "" {
    b.config.OutputName = "app"
  }

  if b.config.Source == "" {
    b.config.Source = "./"
  }
```

Now all the defaults are set up; you can add the code which will build the application. Because the plugin runs in your
current user space, you can use the Go standard library exec package to shell out a process and run `go build`. Set the
values from the config for the source and the application name, and finally, run the command.

```go
c := exec.Command(
     "go",
     "build",
     "-o",
     b.config.OutputName,
     b.config.Source,
)

err := c.Run()
```

## Writing to the Terminal Output

If an error occurs during the build process, you can update the terminal output to show a failure message. The error
returned from the function will also be output to the terminal by Waypoint. The `Step` command can be used to write the status
of the current component if an error occurs during the build command by calling the `Step` method.

Add the following code to your `build` function after the `Run` method.

```go
if err != nil {
  u.Step(terminal.StatusError, "Build failed")

  return nil, err
}
```

Would result in the terminal output shown to the user like:

```shell
» Building...
x Build failed
```

Finally, if the build succeeds, you can update the status and return the `proto.Message` that can be passed to the next
step. Add the following code to your `build` function after the error check.

```go
  u.Step(terminal.StatusOK, "Application built successfully")

  return &Binary{
    Location: path.Join(b.config.Source, b.config.OutputName),
  }, nil
```

The code for the plugin is now complete; let's see how to build and test it.

[Next - Compiling the Plugin](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/compiling)
