website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/configuration.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Handling Configuration'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

# Handling Configuration

Video tutorial below:

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=201&end=582"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

A component in Waypoint is a Struct that implements one or more Waypoint interfaces. If you take a look at the file
`builder/builder.go` you will see that the Build struct is defined and that it has a single field `config` which is of
type `BuildConfig`.

```go
type Builder struct {
  config BuildConfig
}
```

Since the plugin will be building a Go application, at a bare minimum, it will need to know the name of the binary which
will be created and the source code's location. Waypoint allows you to define a custom configuration that can be passed
to your components. The following example shows the configuration for a Waypoint application that uses your new plugin.

The `use` stanza is where the configuration is defined for the build component; this contains two parameters
`output_name` and `source`.

```go
project = "guides"

app "example" {

  build {
    use "gobuilder" {
      output_name = "app"
      source = "./"
    }
  }

}
```

Configuration files are defined as `HCL` and parsed by the Waypoint application. It converts the `HCL` configuration and
passes it to your plugin. So that Waypoint knows how the configuration parameters map to your internal structures. You
define a Struct, adding tags for each of the fields which you would like to serialize from the config.

Let's modify the struct `BuildConfig`, which the plugin uses to store the config. In the templated code, adding the
fields, we would like serialized from the configuration.

Since the configuration fields are optional, you can use the `HCL` annotation `optional` to tell the `HCL` parser to
skip validation for the presence of this field.

Modify the `BuildConfig` struct in the `builder/builder.go` file so that it looks like the following example:

```go
type BuildConfig struct {
  OutputName string `hcl:"output_name,optional"`
  Source     string `hcl:"source,optional"`
}
```

When Waypoint parses the configuration step for the application, it looks to see if your component has implemented the
`Configurable` interface and, if so, calls the `Config` method from which a reference to your config struct is returned.
Waypoint uses the reference and attempts to serialize the application configuration to it.

If you look at the `builder.go` file, you will see that the template has already implemented this.

```go
func (b *Builder) Config() (interface{}, error) {
  return &b.config, nil
}
```

Let's see how you can validate that the configuration is correct before using it in the build process.

## Validating Configuration

To validate configuration, Waypoint components can use the `ConfigurableNotify` interface. `ConfigurableNotify` defines
the method `ConfigSet` called after Waypoint has read the `HCL` config file and serialized it to the struct you returned
from `Config`.

```go
type ConfigurableNotify interface {
  Configurable

  // ConfigSet is called with the value of the configuration after
  // decoding is complete successfully.
  ConfigSet(interface{}) error
}
```

`ConfigSet` is always called before the Component specific interface methods like `BuildFunc` are called. It allows you
to validate any provided configuration, and if necessary, return an error message to the user.

The template has already implemented the `ConfigSet` method on the `Builder` for you; however, let's modify it to
validate the Source folder exists.

Modify the `ConfigSet` function in the `builder.go` folder to look like the following example. The new implementation
uses `os.Stat` to check that the directory defined in the config exists. If it does not, then you return an error that
Waypoint will present to the user.

```go
func (b *Builder) ConfigSet(config interface{}) error {
  c, ok := config.(*BuildConfig)
  if !ok {
    return fmt.Errorf("Expected type BuildConfig")
  }

  // validate the config
  _, err := os.Stat(c.Source)
  if err != nil {
    return fmt.Errorf("Source folder does not exist")
  }

  // config validated ok
  return nil
}
```

[Next - Implementing the Builder interface](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/build-interface)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/configuration.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Handling Configuration'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Handling Configuration

Video tutorial below:

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=201&end=582"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

A component in Waypoint is a Struct that implements one or more Waypoint interfaces. If you take a look at the file
`builder/builder.go` you will see that the Build struct is defined and that it has a single field `config` which is of
type `BuildConfig`.

```go
type Builder struct {
  config BuildConfig
}
```

Since the plugin will be building a Go application, at a bare minimum, it will need to know the name of the binary which
will be created and the source code's location. Waypoint allows you to define a custom configuration that can be passed
to your components. The following example shows the configuration for a Waypoint application that uses your new plugin.

The `use` stanza is where the configuration is defined for the build component; this contains two parameters
`output_name` and `source`.

```go
project = "guides"

app "example" {

  build {
    use "gobuilder" {
      output_name = "app"
      source = "./"
    }
  }

}
```

Configuration files are defined as `HCL` and parsed by the Waypoint application. It converts the `HCL` configuration and
passes it to your plugin. So that Waypoint knows how the configuration parameters map to your internal structures. You
define a Struct, adding tags for each of the fields which you would like to serialize from the config.

Let's modify the struct `BuildConfig`, which the plugin uses to store the config. In the templated code, adding the
fields, we would like serialized from the configuration.

Since the configuration fields are optional, you can use the `HCL` annotation `optional` to tell the `HCL` parser to
skip validation for the presence of this field.

Modify the `BuildConfig` struct in the `builder/builder.go` file so that it looks like the following example:

```go
type BuildConfig struct {
  OutputName string `hcl:"output_name,optional"`
  Source     string `hcl:"source,optional"`
}
```

When Waypoint parses the configuration step for the application, it looks to see if your component has implemented the
`Configurable` interface and, if so, calls the `Config` method from which a reference to your config struct is returned.
Waypoint uses the reference and attempts to serialize the application configuration to it.

If you look at the `builder.go` file, you will see that the template has already implemented this.

```go
func (b *Builder) Config() (interface{}, error) {
  return &b.config, nil
}
```

Let's see how you can validate that the configuration is correct before using it in the build process.

## Validating Configuration

To validate configuration, Waypoint components can use the `ConfigurableNotify` interface. `ConfigurableNotify` defines
the method `ConfigSet` called after Waypoint has read the `HCL` config file and serialized it to the struct you returned
from `Config`.

```go
type ConfigurableNotify interface {
  Configurable

  // ConfigSet is called with the value of the configuration after
  // decoding is complete successfully.
  ConfigSet(interface{}) error
}
```

`ConfigSet` is always called before the Component specific interface methods like `BuildFunc` are called. It allows you
to validate any provided configuration, and if necessary, return an error message to the user.

The template has already implemented the `ConfigSet` method on the `Builder` for you; however, let's modify it to
validate the Source folder exists.

Modify the `ConfigSet` function in the `builder.go` folder to look like the following example. The new implementation
uses `os.Stat` to check that the directory defined in the config exists. If it does not, then you return an error that
Waypoint will present to the user.

```go
func (b *Builder) ConfigSet(config interface{}) error {
  c, ok := config.(*BuildConfig)
  if !ok {
    return fmt.Errorf("Expected type BuildConfig")
  }

  // validate the config
  _, err := os.Stat(c.Source)
  if err != nil {
    return fmt.Errorf("Source folder does not exist")
  }

  // config validated ok
  return nil
}
```

[Next - Implementing the Builder interface](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/build-interface)
