website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/main.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Registering Plugin Components'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

## Registering Plugin Components

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=147&end=200"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

A Waypoint plugin is just a Go binary; if you look at `main.go` you will see the `main` function. The `sdk.Main`
function sets up the Waypoint SDK and registers the interfaces for the go-plugin system for you. All you need to do is
pass `Main` the components your Plugin implements using the `sdk.WithComponents` function. Since this is the default
template, all the different plugin components are registered.

```go
func main() {
	// sdk.Main allows you to register the components which should
	// be included in your plugin
	// Main sets up all the go-plugin requirements

	sdk.Main(sdk.WithComponents(
		// Comment out any components which are not
		// required for your plugin
		&builder.Builder{},
		&registry.Registry{},
		&platform.Platform{},
		&release.ReleaseManager{},
	))
}
```

The plugin you will build in this guide only implements the `Builder` component so you can remove the other components.
Your final `Main` block should look like the following:

```go
	sdk.Main(sdk.WithComponents(
		&builder.Builder{},
	))
```

[Next - Handling Configuration](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/configuration)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/main.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Registering Plugin Components'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

## Registering Plugin Components

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4zwZCpqo0j8?start=147&end=200"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

A Waypoint plugin is just a Go binary; if you look at `main.go` you will see the `main` function. The `sdk.Main`
function sets up the Waypoint SDK and registers the interfaces for the go-plugin system for you. All you need to do is
pass `Main` the components your Plugin implements using the `sdk.WithComponents` function. Since this is the default
template, all the different plugin components are registered.

```go
func main() {
	// sdk.Main allows you to register the components which should
	// be included in your plugin
	// Main sets up all the go-plugin requirements

	sdk.Main(sdk.WithComponents(
		// Comment out any components which are not
		// required for your plugin
		&builder.Builder{},
		&registry.Registry{},
		&platform.Platform{},
		&release.ReleaseManager{},
	))
}
```

The plugin you will build in this guide only implements the `Builder` component so you can remove the other components.
Your final `Main` block should look like the following:

```go
	sdk.Main(sdk.WithComponents(
		&builder.Builder{},
	))
```

[Next - Handling Configuration](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint/creating-plugins/configuration)
