website/content/docs/lifecycle/hooks.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Lifecycle: Hooks'
description: |-
  Hooks can be used to execute commands before or after any lifecycle operation.
---

# Hooks

Hooks can be used to execute commands before or after any lifecycle operation.
This can be useful to do things such as perform a security scan on an image,
run database migrations on a deploy, etc.

Hooks enable these custom lifecycle operations to be performed while
retaining the standard Waypoint workflow of `up` or dedicated commands
`build`, `deploy`, `release`.

Hooks can be configured for `build`, `registry`, `deploy`, and `release`
operations.

## Configuration

Hooks are configured in the stanza of the operation they should run
before or after. Hooks are supported in `build`, `registry`, `deploy`,
and `release` stanzas.

Example `waypoint.hcl`:

```hcl
project = "hooks-example"

app "hooks-example" {
    build {
        use "pack" {}
        hook {
            when = "before"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "build starting"]
            on_failure = "continue"
        }
        hook {
            when = "after"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "build finished"]
        }
    }
    deploy {
        use "docker" {}
        hook {
            when = "before"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "deploy starting"]
            on_failure = "fail"
        }
        hook {
            when = "after"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "deploy finished"]
        }
    }
}
```

Example `audit-log.sh`:

```shell
#!/bin/bash
echo `date` $1 >> audit-log.txt
```

Reference the `hook` [configuration stanza documentation](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook)
for details on all the fields a hook has and which are required.

## Execution Environment

Hooks are executed alongside the Waypoint operation, most commonly within an
on-demand runner. For this reason, you may may need to add additional binaries and
files to the OCI image used to launch the on-demand runner.

Hooks are _not executed in the app deployment platform_. Therefore, operations
such as database migrations or scripts that must be run within the context
of a deploy should use some other mechanism for execution.

-> **Note:** `waypoint exec` will not operate on the current deployment
within a hook, because the deployment is not successful until the hook
itself is successful. `waypoint exec` from a hook will instead execute in the context of the
_previous deployment_. We will look at ways in the future to enable this sort
of behavior.

## Execution Order

Hooks are excuted in the order they're defined in the configuration
file for the `when` value they match. For example: all "before" hooks will be executed in order that they are
defined.

Hooks are executed when the operation they're defined in is executed.
For example, a registry hook will not be executed during a `waypoint build -push=false`
command because `-push=false` configures Waypoint to not execute the
registry push operation.

## Failure Behavior

When a hook fails, it will fail its associated operation by default.
This behavior can be configured with the `on_failure` option.

This has the often desired effect of making the result of that operation
unusable by other operations. For example, an "after" hook failing for a
"build" will make that artifact unavailable for future deployment operations
even if the build itself succeeded.

If `on_failure` is set to "continue," then hook failure is ignored
and does not affect the overall success or failure of the associated operation.

Examples of this are shown in the configuration section above.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/lifecycle/hooks.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Lifecycle: Hooks'
description: |-
  Hooks can be used to execute commands before or after any lifecycle operation.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Hooks

Hooks can be used to execute commands before or after any lifecycle operation.
This can be useful to do things such as perform a security scan on an image,
run database migrations on a deploy, etc.

Hooks enable these custom lifecycle operations to be performed while
retaining the standard Waypoint workflow of `up` or dedicated commands
`build`, `deploy`, `release`.

Hooks can be configured for `build`, `registry`, `deploy`, and `release`
operations.

## Configuration

Hooks are configured in the stanza of the operation they should run
before or after. Hooks are supported in `build`, `registry`, `deploy`,
and `release` stanzas.

Example `waypoint.hcl`:

```hcl
project = "hooks-example"

app "hooks-example" {
    build {
        use "pack" {}
        hook {
            when = "before"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "build starting"]
            on_failure = "continue"
        }
        hook {
            when = "after"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "build finished"]
        }
    }
    deploy {
        use "docker" {}
        hook {
            when = "before"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "deploy starting"]
            on_failure = "fail"
        }
        hook {
            when = "after"
            command = ["./audit-log.sh", "deploy finished"]
        }
    }
}
```

Example `audit-log.sh`:

```shell
#!/bin/bash
echo `date` $1 >> audit-log.txt
```

Reference the `hook` [configuration stanza documentation](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook)
for details on all the fields a hook has and which are required.

## Execution Environment

Hooks are executed alongside the Waypoint operation, most commonly within an
on-demand runner. For this reason, you may may need to add additional binaries and
files to the OCI image used to launch the on-demand runner.

Hooks are _not executed in the app deployment platform_. Therefore, operations
such as database migrations or scripts that must be run within the context
of a deploy should use some other mechanism for execution.

-> **Note:** `waypoint exec` will not operate on the current deployment
within a hook, because the deployment is not successful until the hook
itself is successful. `waypoint exec` from a hook will instead execute in the context of the
_previous deployment_. We will look at ways in the future to enable this sort
of behavior.

## Execution Order

Hooks are excuted in the order they're defined in the configuration
file for the `when` value they match. For example: all "before" hooks will be executed in order that they are
defined.

Hooks are executed when the operation they're defined in is executed.
For example, a registry hook will not be executed during a `waypoint build -push=false`
command because `-push=false` configures Waypoint to not execute the
registry push operation.

## Failure Behavior

When a hook fails, it will fail its associated operation by default.
This behavior can be configured with the `on_failure` option.

This has the often desired effect of making the result of that operation
unusable by other operations. For example, an "after" hook failing for a
"build" will make that artifact unavailable for future deployment operations
even if the build itself succeeded.

If `on_failure` is set to "continue," then hook failure is ignored
and does not affect the overall success or failure of the associated operation.

Examples of this are shown in the configuration section above.
