website/content/docs/lifecycle/scope.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Lifecycle: Workspace and Label Scoping'
description: |-
  You can specify alternate configurations for lifecycle operations based on the current workspace or labels. This can be used to change configurations between environments such as development, staging, production.
---

# Workspace and Label Scoping

You can specify alternate configurations for lifecycle operations
based on the current [workspace](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) or
[labels](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels). This can be used to change
configurations between environments such as development, staging,
production or by specific metadata like region.

This documentation page will use the [deploy](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/deploy)
operation for examples, but the scoping stanzas may be used by
all lifecycle stages and is not limited to only the deploy stage.
The basic example below will deploy to the "default" Kubernetes
namespace no matter what workspace or set of labels are in use:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}
  }
}
```

-> **Note:** Scoping is just one way to alter configuration depending
on workspaces or labels. In particular, it is useful for
_whole configuration_ differences: where the configuration is wholly different
between workspaces or labels. For smaller differences, you may want to look
at alternative methods such as conditionals. See
[partial configuration changes](#partial-configuration-changes).

## Workspace Scoping

We can use [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) as one way to model environments
such as staging, production, etc. And we might use multiple Kubernetes
namespaces as a way to separate these stages. The example below uses
the "default" namespace by default, but uses the "production" namespace
if the workspace is also "production":

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    workspace "production" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        namespace = "production"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Note that we could go further and completely change the plugin in use as well.
Perhaps we are testing a migration to [Nomad](/nomad)
if we're in the "new-platform" workspace:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    workspace "production" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        namespace = "production"
      }
    }

    workspace "new-platform" {
      use "nomad" {
        // nomad configuration here
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Label Scoping

The `label` stanza can be used to configure operations based on
[label selectors](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels#label-selector-syntax).

~> **Warning!** This is an advanced use case. Most cases can be satisfied
using the `workspace` stanza which is much simpler to understand and debug.
Under the covers, the `workspace` stanza is functionally equivalent to a
label selector of `waypoint/workspace == <name>`.

For example, perhaps we have a different configuration
depending on if the `region` label is set for operations. (This label
must be manually set. See [labels](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels).)

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    label "region == us-east" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        // us-east configs
      }
    }

    label "region == us-west" {
      // In us-west we're still migrating from bare ec2
      use "aws-ec2" {}
    }
  }
}
```

-> **Mixing:** `label` and `workspace` stanzas can be used together.
See [multiple match ordering](#multiple-match-ordering) to determine
the behavior when there are multiple matches.

## Scoped Registry Configuration

The `registry` configuration can be scoped as well, but only within
the root `build` stanza. This does not limit the functionality of scoping
registry configuration at all.

For example, the following specifies a custom build and registry configuration
for the "production" workspace. Note that we don't use `registry` within
the workspace-scoped build configuration. We still use `registry` within
the top-level `build` and apply a duplicate `workspace` stanza.

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        local = true
      }

      workspace "production" {
        use "docker" {}
      }
    }

    // Alternate build configuration for production.
    workspace "production" {
      use "pack" {}
    }
  }
}
```

## Multiple Match Ordering

If multiple `workspace` and/or `label` stanzas are used, there may be
scenarios where multiple are valid choices for the current operation.
In this scenario, the following rules are used. The first matching rule
halts the lookup.

1. An exact match `workspace` matches over any `label`.

2. The longest label selector string by byte count (ignoring preceding or trailing
   whitespace) matches before shorter label selector strings.

## Partial Configuration Changes

The `workspace` and `label` stanzas are particularly powerful for
_whole configuration differences_. If only one field is changing between
workspaces, copying the entire configuration between the different stanzas
will become error prone, aesthetically displeasing, and verbose. For
single fields, you should use other features.

-> **Important:** The `workspace` and `label` stanzas _do not_ inherit
any values from the "default" stanza. You must respecify ALL configurations.
(For example, you can't set the Kubernetes namespace in the default `deploy`
stanza and then omit it in a `workspace`-scoped stanza; it must be duplicated).

### Map Lookup

One option is to use a map lookup as a way to change behavior. For example,
if we are only changing the `namespace` for Kubernetes based on the workspace,
we can do the following:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      namespace = {
        "default"    = "default"
        "production" = "prod"
      }[workspace.name]
    }
  }
}
```

This is admittedly not obvious. To explain: we are creating an HCL map
with the `{}` syntax and then doing a lookup using `[]` keyed on
the [`workspace` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/workspace).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/lifecycle/scope.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Lifecycle: Workspace and Label Scoping'
description: |-
  You can specify alternate configurations for lifecycle operations based on the current workspace or labels. This can be used to change configurations between environments such as development, staging, production.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Workspace and Label Scoping

You can specify alternate configurations for lifecycle operations
based on the current [workspace](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) or
[labels](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels). This can be used to change
configurations between environments such as development, staging,
production or by specific metadata like region.

This documentation page will use the [deploy](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/deploy)
operation for examples, but the scoping stanzas may be used by
all lifecycle stages and is not limited to only the deploy stage.
The basic example below will deploy to the "default" Kubernetes
namespace no matter what workspace or set of labels are in use:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}
  }
}
```

-> **Note:** Scoping is just one way to alter configuration depending
on workspaces or labels. In particular, it is useful for
_whole configuration_ differences: where the configuration is wholly different
between workspaces or labels. For smaller differences, you may want to look
at alternative methods such as conditionals. See
[partial configuration changes](#partial-configuration-changes).

## Workspace Scoping

We can use [workspaces](/waypoint/docs/workspaces) as one way to model environments
such as staging, production, etc. And we might use multiple Kubernetes
namespaces as a way to separate these stages. The example below uses
the "default" namespace by default, but uses the "production" namespace
if the workspace is also "production":

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    workspace "production" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        namespace = "production"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Note that we could go further and completely change the plugin in use as well.
Perhaps we are testing a migration to [Nomad](/nomad)
if we're in the "new-platform" workspace:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    workspace "production" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        namespace = "production"
      }
    }

    workspace "new-platform" {
      use "nomad" {
        // nomad configuration here
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Label Scoping

The `label` stanza can be used to configure operations based on
[label selectors](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels#label-selector-syntax).

~> **Warning!** This is an advanced use case. Most cases can be satisfied
using the `workspace` stanza which is much simpler to understand and debug.
Under the covers, the `workspace` stanza is functionally equivalent to a
label selector of `waypoint/workspace == <name>`.

For example, perhaps we have a different configuration
depending on if the `region` label is set for operations. (This label
must be manually set. See [labels](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/labels).)

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {}

    label "region == us-east" {
      use "kubernetes" {
        // us-east configs
      }
    }

    label "region == us-west" {
      // In us-west we're still migrating from bare ec2
      use "aws-ec2" {}
    }
  }
}
```

-> **Mixing:** `label` and `workspace` stanzas can be used together.
See [multiple match ordering](#multiple-match-ordering) to determine
the behavior when there are multiple matches.

## Scoped Registry Configuration

The `registry` configuration can be scoped as well, but only within
the root `build` stanza. This does not limit the functionality of scoping
registry configuration at all.

For example, the following specifies a custom build and registry configuration
for the "production" workspace. Note that we don't use `registry` within
the workspace-scoped build configuration. We still use `registry` within
the top-level `build` and apply a duplicate `workspace` stanza.

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        local = true
      }

      workspace "production" {
        use "docker" {}
      }
    }

    // Alternate build configuration for production.
    workspace "production" {
      use "pack" {}
    }
  }
}
```

## Multiple Match Ordering

If multiple `workspace` and/or `label` stanzas are used, there may be
scenarios where multiple are valid choices for the current operation.
In this scenario, the following rules are used. The first matching rule
halts the lookup.

1. An exact match `workspace` matches over any `label`.

2. The longest label selector string by byte count (ignoring preceding or trailing
   whitespace) matches before shorter label selector strings.

## Partial Configuration Changes

The `workspace` and `label` stanzas are particularly powerful for
_whole configuration differences_. If only one field is changing between
workspaces, copying the entire configuration between the different stanzas
will become error prone, aesthetically displeasing, and verbose. For
single fields, you should use other features.

-> **Important:** The `workspace` and `label` stanzas _do not_ inherit
any values from the "default" stanza. You must respecify ALL configurations.
(For example, you can't set the Kubernetes namespace in the default `deploy`
stanza and then omit it in a `workspace`-scoped stanza; it must be duplicated).

### Map Lookup

One option is to use a map lookup as a way to change behavior. For example,
if we are only changing the `namespace` for Kubernetes based on the workspace,
we can do the following:

```hcl
app "my-app" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      namespace = {
        "default"    = "default"
        "production" = "prod"
      }[workspace.name]
    }
  }
}
```

This is admittedly not obvious. To explain: we are creating an HCL map
with the `{}` syntax and then doing a lookup using `[]` keyed on
the [`workspace` variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/workspace).
