website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-frameworks/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Plugin Frameworks'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

# Plugin Frameworks

Package `framework` contains a high-level framework for writing Waypoint plugins.
The framework is split into sub-packages for specific functionality, whereas
this root package contains the highest-level functionality.

Currently, the only framework supported is for managing resources during the lifecycle
of a deployment or release. This framework gives plugin authors a way to manage
multiple resources easily without having to define a large `Deploy` or `Release` func
that attempts to do it all. By defining each resources CRUD functions (i.e. the
create and delete funcs, plus a status), resource manager will call the appropriate
functions depending on what operations are being taken with Waypoint.

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/framework/resource

# Implementing Resource Manager

The Waypoint Plugin SDK Framework is used to implement Resource Manager for your
plugin. By integrating this framework into your `deploy` or `release` lifecycle
funcs, Resource Manager can automatically handle the creation, deletion, and status
of the resources involved with deployments and releases.

Rather than having one large `Deploy` or `Release` function that creates or
deletes every resource, Resource Manager lets you define each resources create
and delete functions. It also is expected to store a little bit of state about
the resources being managed for easier access.

In the following example, we set up a Deployment proto that has a single resource:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

package platform;

option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/template/platform";

import "google/protobuf/any.proto";

// You can customize this message to change the fields for
// the output value from your Deployment
message Deployment {
  string id = 1;
  string name = 2;
  google.protobuf.Any resource_state = 3;
}

// An example proto message for a deployment resource. When you make your own
// this might look a little different depending on what kinds of options you
// wish to know about a resource
message Resource {
  string name = 1;
  message Deployment {
    string name = 1;
  }
}
```

When setting up a new resource manager, your plugin will want to make sure to
initialize the manager with some fields that tell it what to call when it invokes
the `create`, `delete`, and `status` funcs.

```go
// Resource manager will tell the Waypoint Plugin SDK how to create and delete
// certain resources for your deployments.
//
// For example, your deployment might need to create a "container" or "load balancer".
// Your plugin could implement two resources through ResourceManager and the Waypoint
// Plugin SDK will automatically create or delete these resources as well as
// obtain the defined status for them.
//
// ResourceManager can also be implemented for Release as well.
func (p *Platform) resourceManager(log hclog.Logger, dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp, dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp) *resource.Manager {
        return resource.NewManager(
                resource.WithLogger(log.Named("resource_manager")),
                resource.WithValueProvider(p.getConnectContext),
                resource.WithDeclaredResourcesResp(dcr),
                resource.WithDestroyedResourcesResp(dtr),
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Deployment{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceDeploymentCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceDeploymentDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceDeploymentStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                        resource.WithCategoryDisplayHint(sdk.ResourceCategoryDisplayHint_INSTANCE_MANAGER), // This is meant for the UI to determine what kind of icon to show
                )),
                // NOTE: Add more resource funcs here if your plugin has more than 1 resource
        )
}
```

If your deployment or release involves multiple resources, you would define
them when creating Resource Manager. When `CreateAll` is invoked, each function
should be called during the deployment process for creating the required resources.

Then, you'll be ready to implement one of the functions invoked by Resource Manager.
For examples sake, let's take a look at what the `resourceDeploymentCreate` might look like.

```go
func (b *Platform) deploy(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp,
        dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
) (*Deployment, error) {
        u := ui.Status()
        defer u.Close()
        u.Update("Deploy application")

        var result Deployment

        // Create our resource manager and create deployment resources
        rm := b.resourceManager(log, dcr, nil)

        // NOTE: These params must match exactly to your resourceDeploymentCreate
        // params (or any other additional deployment resource create funcs).
        // Otherwise they will not be invoked during CreateAll()
        if err := rm.CreateAll(
                ctx, log, u, ui,
                artifact, &result,
        ); err != nil {
                return nil, err
        }

        // Store our resource state
        result.ResourceState = rm.State()

        u.Update("Application deployed")

        return &Deployment{}, nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your deployment resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created deployment

        return nil
}
```

When your plugin needs to destroy the resources it manages, you can use Resource
Manager to destroy them as well.

```go
func (p *Platform) destroy(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        deployment *Deployment,
) error {
        sg := ui.StepGroup()
        defer sg.Wait()

        rm := p.resourceManager(log, dcr, dtr)

        // If we don't have resource state, this state is from an older version
        // and we need to manually recreate it.
        if deployment.ResourceState == nil {
                rm.Resource("deployment").SetState(&Resource_Deployment{
                        Name: deployment.Name,
                })
        } else {
                // Load our set state
                if err := rm.LoadState(deployment.ResourceState); err != nil {
                        return err
                }
        }

        // Destroy
        return rm.DestroyAll(ctx, log, sg, ui)
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentDestroy(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        sg terminal.StepGroup,
        ui terminal.UI,
) error {
        // Destroy your deployment resource
        return nil
}
```

Finally, each resource can report a status if it makes sense to. Generally these
statuses are reported by the platform they run on. If the resource is fairly
simple, it might only have an "exists" or "does not exist" status rather than
having a more complex status like a Pod in Kubernetes.

```go
func (d *Platform) status(
        ctx context.Context,
        ji *component.JobInfo,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        deployment *Deployment,
) (*sdk.StatusReport, error) {
        sg := ui.StepGroup()
        s := sg.Add("Checking the status of the deployment...")

        rm := d.resourceManager(log, nil)

        // If we don't have resource state, this state is from an older version
        // and we need to manually recreate it.
        if deployment.ResourceState == nil {
                rm.Resource("deployment").SetState(&Resource_Deployment{
                        Name: deployment.Id,
                })
        } else {
                // Load our set state
                if err := rm.LoadState(deployment.ResourceState); err != nil {
                        return nil, err
                }
        }

        // This will call the StatusReport func on every defined resource in ResourceManager
        report, err := rm.StatusReport(ctx, log, sg, ui)
        if err != nil {
                return nil, status.Errorf(codes.Internal, "resource manager failed to generate resource statuses: %s", err)
        }

        report.Health = sdk.StatusReport_UNKNOWN
        s.Update("Deployment is currently not implemented!")
        s.Done()

        return report, nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentStatus(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        sg terminal.StepGroup,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
) error {
        // Determine health status of "this" resource.
        return nil
}
```

## Dependencies Between Resources

Dependencies between multiple resources can be defined by including the type of
one resource as an input parameter to another. The resources will be created in
the appropriate order based on such dependencies. Below is an example of this:

```go
func (p *Platform) resourceManager(log hclog.Logger, dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp, dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp) *resource.Manager {
        return resource.NewManager(
                resource.WithLogger(log.Named("resource_manager")),
                resource.WithValueProvider(p.getConnectContext),
                resource.WithDeclaredResourcesResp(dcr),
                resource.WithDestroyedResourcesResp(dtr),
                // Resource 1
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Deployment{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceDeploymentCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceDeploymentDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceDeploymentStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                        resource.WithCategoryDisplayHint(sdk.ResourceCategoryDisplayHint_INSTANCE_MANAGER), // This is meant for the UI to determine what kind of icon to show
                )),
                // Resource 2
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example_2"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Service{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceServiceCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceServiceDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceServiceStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                )),
        )
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your deployment resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created deployment

        return nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceServiceCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Service,

        // Including the parameter below informs the resource manager that
        // the deployment must be created BEFORE the service
        deployment *Resource_Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your service resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created service

        return nil
}
```

For a more complete picture of what this implementation might look like with
a real platform plugin, check out how Waypoint handles Resource Manager
with the Kubernetes plugin for deployments and releases:

- [Waypoint Kubernetes Deploy Plugin](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/builtin/k8s/platform.go)
- [Waypoint Kubernetes Release Plugin](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/builtin/k8s/releaser.go)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/extending-waypoint/plugin-frameworks/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Plugin Frameworks'
description: |-
  How Waypoint plugins work
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Plugin Frameworks

Package `framework` contains a high-level framework for writing Waypoint plugins.
The framework is split into sub-packages for specific functionality, whereas
this root package contains the highest-level functionality.

Currently, the only framework supported is for managing resources during the lifecycle
of a deployment or release. This framework gives plugin authors a way to manage
multiple resources easily without having to define a large `Deploy` or `Release` func
that attempts to do it all. By defining each resources CRUD functions (i.e. the
create and delete funcs, plus a status), resource manager will call the appropriate
functions depending on what operations are being taken with Waypoint.

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-sdk/framework/resource

# Implementing Resource Manager

The Waypoint Plugin SDK Framework is used to implement Resource Manager for your
plugin. By integrating this framework into your `deploy` or `release` lifecycle
funcs, Resource Manager can automatically handle the creation, deletion, and status
of the resources involved with deployments and releases.

Rather than having one large `Deploy` or `Release` function that creates or
deletes every resource, Resource Manager lets you define each resources create
and delete functions. It also is expected to store a little bit of state about
the resources being managed for easier access.

In the following example, we set up a Deployment proto that has a single resource:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

package platform;

option go_package = "github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-plugin-examples/template/platform";

import "google/protobuf/any.proto";

// You can customize this message to change the fields for
// the output value from your Deployment
message Deployment {
  string id = 1;
  string name = 2;
  google.protobuf.Any resource_state = 3;
}

// An example proto message for a deployment resource. When you make your own
// this might look a little different depending on what kinds of options you
// wish to know about a resource
message Resource {
  string name = 1;
  message Deployment {
    string name = 1;
  }
}
```

When setting up a new resource manager, your plugin will want to make sure to
initialize the manager with some fields that tell it what to call when it invokes
the `create`, `delete`, and `status` funcs.

```go
// Resource manager will tell the Waypoint Plugin SDK how to create and delete
// certain resources for your deployments.
//
// For example, your deployment might need to create a "container" or "load balancer".
// Your plugin could implement two resources through ResourceManager and the Waypoint
// Plugin SDK will automatically create or delete these resources as well as
// obtain the defined status for them.
//
// ResourceManager can also be implemented for Release as well.
func (p *Platform) resourceManager(log hclog.Logger, dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp, dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp) *resource.Manager {
        return resource.NewManager(
                resource.WithLogger(log.Named("resource_manager")),
                resource.WithValueProvider(p.getConnectContext),
                resource.WithDeclaredResourcesResp(dcr),
                resource.WithDestroyedResourcesResp(dtr),
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Deployment{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceDeploymentCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceDeploymentDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceDeploymentStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                        resource.WithCategoryDisplayHint(sdk.ResourceCategoryDisplayHint_INSTANCE_MANAGER), // This is meant for the UI to determine what kind of icon to show
                )),
                // NOTE: Add more resource funcs here if your plugin has more than 1 resource
        )
}
```

If your deployment or release involves multiple resources, you would define
them when creating Resource Manager. When `CreateAll` is invoked, each function
should be called during the deployment process for creating the required resources.

Then, you'll be ready to implement one of the functions invoked by Resource Manager.
For examples sake, let's take a look at what the `resourceDeploymentCreate` might look like.

```go
func (b *Platform) deploy(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp,
        dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
) (*Deployment, error) {
        u := ui.Status()
        defer u.Close()
        u.Update("Deploy application")

        var result Deployment

        // Create our resource manager and create deployment resources
        rm := b.resourceManager(log, dcr, nil)

        // NOTE: These params must match exactly to your resourceDeploymentCreate
        // params (or any other additional deployment resource create funcs).
        // Otherwise they will not be invoked during CreateAll()
        if err := rm.CreateAll(
                ctx, log, u, ui,
                artifact, &result,
        ); err != nil {
                return nil, err
        }

        // Store our resource state
        result.ResourceState = rm.State()

        u.Update("Application deployed")

        return &Deployment{}, nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your deployment resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created deployment

        return nil
}
```

When your plugin needs to destroy the resources it manages, you can use Resource
Manager to destroy them as well.

```go
func (p *Platform) destroy(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        deployment *Deployment,
) error {
        sg := ui.StepGroup()
        defer sg.Wait()

        rm := p.resourceManager(log, dcr, dtr)

        // If we don't have resource state, this state is from an older version
        // and we need to manually recreate it.
        if deployment.ResourceState == nil {
                rm.Resource("deployment").SetState(&Resource_Deployment{
                        Name: deployment.Name,
                })
        } else {
                // Load our set state
                if err := rm.LoadState(deployment.ResourceState); err != nil {
                        return err
                }
        }

        // Destroy
        return rm.DestroyAll(ctx, log, sg, ui)
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentDestroy(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        sg terminal.StepGroup,
        ui terminal.UI,
) error {
        // Destroy your deployment resource
        return nil
}
```

Finally, each resource can report a status if it makes sense to. Generally these
statuses are reported by the platform they run on. If the resource is fairly
simple, it might only have an "exists" or "does not exist" status rather than
having a more complex status like a Pod in Kubernetes.

```go
func (d *Platform) status(
        ctx context.Context,
        ji *component.JobInfo,
        ui terminal.UI,
        log hclog.Logger,
        deployment *Deployment,
) (*sdk.StatusReport, error) {
        sg := ui.StepGroup()
        s := sg.Add("Checking the status of the deployment...")

        rm := d.resourceManager(log, nil)

        // If we don't have resource state, this state is from an older version
        // and we need to manually recreate it.
        if deployment.ResourceState == nil {
                rm.Resource("deployment").SetState(&Resource_Deployment{
                        Name: deployment.Id,
                })
        } else {
                // Load our set state
                if err := rm.LoadState(deployment.ResourceState); err != nil {
                        return nil, err
                }
        }

        // This will call the StatusReport func on every defined resource in ResourceManager
        report, err := rm.StatusReport(ctx, log, sg, ui)
        if err != nil {
                return nil, status.Errorf(codes.Internal, "resource manager failed to generate resource statuses: %s", err)
        }

        report.Health = sdk.StatusReport_UNKNOWN
        s.Update("Deployment is currently not implemented!")
        s.Done()

        return report, nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentStatus(
        ctx context.Context,
        ui terminal.UI,
        sg terminal.StepGroup,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
) error {
        // Determine health status of "this" resource.
        return nil
}
```

## Dependencies Between Resources

Dependencies between multiple resources can be defined by including the type of
one resource as an input parameter to another. The resources will be created in
the appropriate order based on such dependencies. Below is an example of this:

```go
func (p *Platform) resourceManager(log hclog.Logger, dcr *component.DeclaredResourcesResp, dtr *component.DestroyedResourcesResp) *resource.Manager {
        return resource.NewManager(
                resource.WithLogger(log.Named("resource_manager")),
                resource.WithValueProvider(p.getConnectContext),
                resource.WithDeclaredResourcesResp(dcr),
                resource.WithDestroyedResourcesResp(dtr),
                // Resource 1
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Deployment{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceDeploymentCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceDeploymentDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceDeploymentStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                        resource.WithCategoryDisplayHint(sdk.ResourceCategoryDisplayHint_INSTANCE_MANAGER), // This is meant for the UI to determine what kind of icon to show
                )),
                // Resource 2
                resource.WithResource(resource.NewResource(
                        resource.WithName("template_example_2"), // The name of your resource
                        resource.WithState(&Resource_Service{}), // This is your Resource proto (this is the message we created earlier in this section)
                        resource.WithCreate(p.resourceServiceCreate),
                        resource.WithDestroy(p.resourceServiceDestroy),
                        resource.WithStatus(p.resourceServiceStatus),
                        resource.WithPlatform("template_platform"), // Update this to match your plugins platform, like Kubernetes
                )),
        )
}

func (b *Platform) resourceDeploymentCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your deployment resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created deployment

        return nil
}

func (b *Platform) resourceServiceCreate(
        ctx context.Context,
        log hclog.Logger,
        st terminal.Status,
        ui terminal.UI,
        artifact *registry.Artifact,
        result *Service,

        // Including the parameter below informs the resource manager that
        // the deployment must be created BEFORE the service
        deployment *Resource_Deployment,
) error {
        // Create your service resource here!
        // Update `result` with the created service

        return nil
}
```

For a more complete picture of what this implementation might look like with
a real platform plugin, check out how Waypoint handles Resource Manager
with the Kubernetes plugin for deployments and releases:

- [Waypoint Kubernetes Deploy Plugin](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/builtin/k8s/platform.go)
- [Waypoint Kubernetes Release Plugin](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/blob/main/builtin/k8s/releaser.go)
