website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: artifact - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `artifact` variable can be used to reference information about built artifacts. This can be used to access information such as the name and tag of a built Docker image, or the AMI of a built EC2 machine image.
---

# `artifact` Variable

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'registry'],
    ['app', 'deploy'],
    ['app', 'release'],
  ]}
/>

The `artifact` variable can be used to reference information about
built artifacts. This can be used to access information such as
the name and tag of a built Docker image, or the AMI of a built
EC2 machine image.

The exact fields within an `artifact` variable are dependent on the
[plugin used for the build](/waypoint/integrations) and the available fields are
documented alongside plugins.

## Example: Docker

The example below uses the `artifact` variable to reuse the
Docker image name from the build when pushing it to a registry. This
configuration makes it so that if the build name is changed, it will
also automatically change for the registry without having to modify
the configuration.

```hcl
app "web" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = artifact.image
        tag = gitrefpretty()
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The example uses the `artifact.image` value which is the image name
(without a tag). Other fields such as `artifact.tag` and
`artifact.name` (the full name with the tag) are also available.
For the full list of available fields, see the Docker plugin documentation.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: artifact - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `artifact` variable can be used to reference information about built artifacts. This can be used to access information such as the name and tag of a built Docker image, or the AMI of a built EC2 machine image.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `artifact` Variable

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'registry'],
    ['app', 'deploy'],
    ['app', 'release'],
  ]}
/>

The `artifact` variable can be used to reference information about
built artifacts. This can be used to access information such as
the name and tag of a built Docker image, or the AMI of a built
EC2 machine image.

The exact fields within an `artifact` variable are dependent on the
[plugin used for the build](/waypoint/integrations) and the available fields are
documented alongside plugins.

## Example: Docker

The example below uses the `artifact` variable to reuse the
Docker image name from the build when pushing it to a registry. This
configuration makes it so that if the build name is changed, it will
also automatically change for the registry without having to modify
the configuration.

```hcl
app "web" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = artifact.image
        tag = gitrefpretty()
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The example uses the `artifact.image` value which is the image name
(without a tag). Other fields such as `artifact.tag` and
`artifact.name` (the full name with the tag) are also available.
For the full list of available fields, see the Docker plugin documentation.
