website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/deploy.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: deploy - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `deploy` variable can be used to reference information about the deployment within a release. This can be used to access information such as the resulting instance ID, IP address, etc.
---

# `deploy` Variable

<Placement groups={[['app', 'release']]} />

The `deploy` variable can be used to reference information about
the deployment within a release. This can be used to access information
such as the resulting instance ID, IP address, etc.

The exact fields within a `deploy` variable are dependent on the
[plugin used for the build](/waypoint/integrations) and the available fields are
documented alongside plugins.

## Example: AWS ECS

The example below uses the `deploy` variable to store the ECS Task ARN
as a label as part of the release operation. While Waypoint keeps track
of the backlinks of what deployment created a release, this information
may be useful to have directly in a label:

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "aws-ecs" {
      # ...
    }
  }

  release {
    labels = {
      "example.com/task-arn": deploy.task_arn,
    }

    use "aws-ecs" {
      # ...
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/deploy.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: deploy - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `deploy` variable can be used to reference information about the deployment within a release. This can be used to access information such as the resulting instance ID, IP address, etc.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `deploy` Variable

<Placement groups={[['app', 'release']]} />

The `deploy` variable can be used to reference information about
the deployment within a release. This can be used to access information
such as the resulting instance ID, IP address, etc.

The exact fields within a `deploy` variable are dependent on the
[plugin used for the build](/waypoint/integrations) and the available fields are
documented alongside plugins.

## Example: AWS ECS

The example below uses the `deploy` variable to store the ECS Task ARN
as a label as part of the release operation. While Waypoint keeps track
of the backlinks of what deployment created a release, this information
may be useful to have directly in a label:

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "aws-ecs" {
      # ...
    }
  }

  release {
    labels = {
      "example.com/task-arn": deploy.task_arn,
    }

    use "aws-ecs" {
      # ...
    }
  }
}
```
