website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: External Data - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  You can access external data from a waypoint.hcl such as Vault secrets, Kubernetes configuration, Terraform outputs, and more.
---

# External Data

You can access external data from a waypoint.hcl such as Vault secrets,
Kubernetes configuration, Terraform outputs, and more. External data is
sourced using the
[`dynamic` function](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#setting-dynamic-values-via-waypoint-hcl)
set as a default value for an
[input variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input).

-> **Requirements:** External data fetching does not works in jobs that run
on [CLI runners](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint). You can still operate locally
on waypoint.hcl files that fetch external data, but all the variables that fetch
external values must be manually overridden.

## Fetching External Data

The
[`dynamic` function](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#setting-dynamic-values-via-waypoint-hcl)
is used to fetch external data. This is the same function used to fetch
external data as app and runner configuration. This function is used to set
the value of the `default` argument for
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input), and then the input
variable is used as normal to access the value.

```hcl
variable "image_name" {
  type    = string
  default = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
    organization = "foocorp"
    workspace    = "images"
    output       = "name"
  })
}

app "myapp" {
  builder {
    use "docker" {
      image_name = var.image_name
    }
  }
}
```

The `dynamic` function is only allowed as a default value for input variables.
This ensures that all parametric data for a waypoint.hcl can be consumed
and overridden using standard mechanisms such as CLI flags, `wpvars` files,
the UI, and more. For dynamic values, this also makes it easy to use and test
Waypoint with different values without modifying the remote system; you can
just override it using [standard input variable mechanisms](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#assigning-values-to-custom-input-variables).

## Available Data Sources

The list of available data sources can be found
[here](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#configuration-sources). This list is maintained
in the application configuration section since the same underlying system is used.

**Custom data sources** can also be implemented by
[extending Waypoint](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint) with a config sourcer plugin.
The plugin then needs to be installed like any other plugin described in the
[extending Waypoint documentation](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: External Data - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  You can access external data from a waypoint.hcl such as Vault secrets, Kubernetes configuration, Terraform outputs, and more.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# External Data

You can access external data from a waypoint.hcl such as Vault secrets,
Kubernetes configuration, Terraform outputs, and more. External data is
sourced using the
[`dynamic` function](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#setting-dynamic-values-via-waypoint-hcl)
set as a default value for an
[input variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input).

-> **Requirements:** External data fetching does not works in jobs that run
on [CLI runners](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint). You can still operate locally
on waypoint.hcl files that fetch external data, but all the variables that fetch
external values must be manually overridden.

## Fetching External Data

The
[`dynamic` function](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#setting-dynamic-values-via-waypoint-hcl)
is used to fetch external data. This is the same function used to fetch
external data as app and runner configuration. This function is used to set
the value of the `default` argument for
[input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input), and then the input
variable is used as normal to access the value.

```hcl
variable "image_name" {
  type    = string
  default = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
    organization = "foocorp"
    workspace    = "images"
    output       = "name"
  })
}

app "myapp" {
  builder {
    use "docker" {
      image_name = var.image_name
    }
  }
}
```

The `dynamic` function is only allowed as a default value for input variables.
This ensures that all parametric data for a waypoint.hcl can be consumed
and overridden using standard mechanisms such as CLI flags, `wpvars` files,
the UI, and more. For dynamic values, this also makes it easy to use and test
Waypoint with different values without modifying the remote system; you can
just override it using [standard input variable mechanisms](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#assigning-values-to-custom-input-variables).

## Available Data Sources

The list of available data sources can be found
[here](/waypoint/docs/app-config/dynamic#configuration-sources). This list is maintained
in the application configuration section since the same underlying system is used.

**Custom data sources** can also be implemented by
[extending Waypoint](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint) with a config sourcer plugin.
The plugin then needs to be installed like any other plugin described in the
[extending Waypoint documentation](/waypoint/docs/extending-waypoint).
