website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `waypoint.hcl` file uses HCL which is able to reference predefined variables. This section documents the list of available variables within the `waypoint.hcl`.
---

# Variables in `waypoint.hcl`

The `waypoint.hcl` file uses [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) which
is able to reference predefined variables. This section will document the
list of available variables within the `waypoint.hcl`. Variable documentation
pages use [placement tables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#placement-tables)
to document where variables are valid.

## Using Variables

Variable usage is similar to many mainstream programming languages such
as Javascript, Ruby, or Python. Variables can be used directly, such as
in the example below where `path.app` is assigned to `dockerfile`.

```hcl
dockerfile = path.app
```

Variables can also be interpolated in strings to concatenate multiple
values together:

```hcl
dockerfile = "${path.app}/Dockerfile"
```

## Custom Variables

Waypoint supports [custom input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input), predefined
variables, and the dynamic variables introduced by plugins, such as
[`artifact`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `waypoint.hcl` file uses HCL which is able to reference predefined variables. This section documents the list of available variables within the `waypoint.hcl`.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Variables in `waypoint.hcl`

The `waypoint.hcl` file uses [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) which
is able to reference predefined variables. This section will document the
list of available variables within the `waypoint.hcl`. Variable documentation
pages use [placement tables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#placement-tables)
to document where variables are valid.

## Using Variables

Variable usage is similar to many mainstream programming languages such
as Javascript, Ruby, or Python. Variables can be used directly, such as
in the example below where `path.app` is assigned to `dockerfile`.

```hcl
dockerfile = path.app
```

Variables can also be interpolated in strings to concatenate multiple
values together:

```hcl
dockerfile = "${path.app}/Dockerfile"
```

## Custom Variables

Waypoint supports [custom input variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input), predefined
variables, and the dynamic variables introduced by plugins, such as
[`artifact`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/artifact).
