website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/labels.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: labels - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `labels` variable is a map of the full set of labels that are set for the current operation.
---

# `labels` Variable

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build'],
    ['app', 'deploy'],
    ['app', 'release'],
  ]}
/>

The `labels` variable is a map of the full set of labels that are
set for the current operation.

### Example: Kubernetes Annotations

The example below shows how we can set annotations on a Kubernetes
deployment to mirror the Waypoint labels we have set.

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      annotations = { for k, v in labels: "waypoint/${k}" => v }
    }
  }
}
```

This examples goes a bit further and uses HCL map expressions to
prefix all our labels with "waypoint/" to note they come from Waypoint.
If you wanted to just map the labels directly, you can do
`annotations = labels` directly.

### Example: Conditional on Labels

The example below shows how we can use the `selectormatch` function
to perform conditional logic with labels. The `selector`-prefixed functions
all use the common label selector syntax that is used throughout various
features in Waypoint.

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      image_secret = selectormatch(labels, "env == production") ?
        "ProdSecret" : "DevSecret"
    }
  }
}
```

This could also be done with `selectorlookup` which allows mapping
matching selector expressions to specific values:

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      image_secret = selectorlookup(labels, {
        "env == production" = "ProdSecret"
      }, "DevSecret")
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/labels.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: labels - Variables - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `labels` variable is a map of the full set of labels that are set for the current operation.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `labels` Variable

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build'],
    ['app', 'deploy'],
    ['app', 'release'],
  ]}
/>

The `labels` variable is a map of the full set of labels that are
set for the current operation.

### Example: Kubernetes Annotations

The example below shows how we can set annotations on a Kubernetes
deployment to mirror the Waypoint labels we have set.

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      annotations = { for k, v in labels: "waypoint/${k}" => v }
    }
  }
}
```

This examples goes a bit further and uses HCL map expressions to
prefix all our labels with "waypoint/" to note they come from Waypoint.
If you wanted to just map the labels directly, you can do
`annotations = labels` directly.

### Example: Conditional on Labels

The example below shows how we can use the `selectormatch` function
to perform conditional logic with labels. The `selector`-prefixed functions
all use the common label selector syntax that is used throughout various
features in Waypoint.

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      image_secret = selectormatch(labels, "env == production") ?
        "ProdSecret" : "DevSecret"
    }
  }
}
```

This could also be done with `selectorlookup` which allows mapping
matching selector expressions to specific values:

```hcl
app "web" {
  deploy {
    use "kubernetes" {
      image_secret = selectorlookup(labels, {
        "env == production" = "ProdSecret"
      }, "DevSecret")
    }
  }
}
```
