website/content/docs/server/run/maintenance.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Server Maintenance
description: |-
  A Waypoint server needs to be maintained to ensure smooth operation and to protect against unexpected events such as server crashes. This page outlines various maintenance-related topics for smooth operation of a Waypoint server.
---

# Server Maintenance

A Waypoint server needs to be maintained to ensure smooth operation and
to protect against unexpected events such as server crashes. This page
outlines various maintenance-related topics for smooth operation of a
Waypoint server.

## Logs

Server logs are output to `stderr`.

For `waypoint install`-based servers, logs are always very verbose (`-vvv`).
For manually run servers, you can control log level using multiple `-v` flags
or by setting `WAYPOINT_LOG_LEVEL` to one of "trace", "debug", "info", "warn",
or "error".

## Database

The Waypoint server stores data into a single `data.db` file.

### Path to Database

For `waypoint install`-based servers:

- **Docker** - `/data/data.db`
- **ECS** - `/waypoint-data/data.db`
- **Kubernetes** - `/data/data.db`
- **Nomad** - `/alloc/data.db`

For manually run servers, it is dependent on the value of the `-db` flag.

### Backup / Restore

The Waypoint server supports both an online and offline backup and restore.

#### Online Backup and Restore

To backup the database, use the [`waypoint server snapshot`](/waypoint/commands/server-snapshot)
command. This command will take an online snapshot of the database and
write it to a local gzip-compressed file. In the example below, we take
a snapshot and save it as a `backup.snap`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint server snapshot backup.snap
```

~> **Warning!** The snapshot data contains secret and sensitive information
(such as auth tokens) _unencrypted_. Snapshots are highly sensitive and should
be carefully protected.

You can then restore this snapshot using [`waypoint server restore`](/waypoint/commands/server-restore).
This command _stages_ the restore but _does not_ activate the restore. This means
that the old data (prior to the restore) will continue to be the live data
until the restore is activated. To activate the restore, you must restart the server. You may call restore
multiple times to stage different backups; each call will overwrite the last
staged restore.

```shell-session
$ waypoint server restore backup.snap
```

If you are running the Waypoint server in an environment that will automatically
restart it for you (such as Kubernetes or Nomad), then you may pass the
`-exit` flag to `waypoint server restore`. This will cause the Waypoint server
to abruptly exit after staging the restore. This expects that the underlying
platform will restart the process after noticing it has died.

#### Offline Restore with a Snapshot

You can restore a server with a snapshot taken when the server was online
via `waypoint server snapshot`.

In the server data directory (where the `data.db` file would normally be),
copy the snapshot data and name the file `waypoint-restore.db`. For example,
if you normally run the Waypoint server as `waypoint server -db=/data/data.db`
then you should copy the snapshot data to `/data/waypoint-restore.db`.

The real database doesn't need to exist; the restore process also works with
new, fresh servers. However, the snapshot data must still be named `waypoint-restore.db`.

Start or restart the server. On boot, it will notice the existence of a
restore snapshot and attempt to restore. The logs should contain information
about the restore. If the restore fails, the server will not start.

#### Snapshot Version Compatibility

Online snapshots are safe to restore against any version of Waypoint.

If a snapshot is incompatible, an error will be shown on start and no existing
data will be corrupted. We intend for snapshots to remain compatible with
all future versions of Waypoint. If there are any exceptions, it'll be noted
in the upgrade guide. Please always read the upgrade guide for all versions
leading up to the version you're installing.

#### Offline Backup

In an emergency, you may perform an offline backup by copying the database file
directly. In this case, you may restore the backup offline by replacing the
database file.

~> **This method of backup is not recommended.** The raw database file
compatibility is not guaranteed across versions. It is highly recommended
you perform online snapshots with online _or_ offline restores using that
snapshot data.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/server/run/maintenance.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Server Maintenance
description: |-
  A Waypoint server needs to be maintained to ensure smooth operation and to protect against unexpected events such as server crashes. This page outlines various maintenance-related topics for smooth operation of a Waypoint server.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Server Maintenance

A Waypoint server needs to be maintained to ensure smooth operation and
to protect against unexpected events such as server crashes. This page
outlines various maintenance-related topics for smooth operation of a
Waypoint server.

## Logs

Server logs are output to `stderr`.

For `waypoint install`-based servers, logs are always very verbose (`-vvv`).
For manually run servers, you can control log level using multiple `-v` flags
or by setting `WAYPOINT_LOG_LEVEL` to one of "trace", "debug", "info", "warn",
or "error".

## Database

The Waypoint server stores data into a single `data.db` file.

### Path to Database

For `waypoint install`-based servers:

- **Docker** - `/data/data.db`
- **ECS** - `/waypoint-data/data.db`
- **Kubernetes** - `/data/data.db`
- **Nomad** - `/alloc/data.db`

For manually run servers, it is dependent on the value of the `-db` flag.

### Backup / Restore

The Waypoint server supports both an online and offline backup and restore.

#### Online Backup and Restore

To backup the database, use the [`waypoint server snapshot`](/waypoint/commands/server-snapshot)
command. This command will take an online snapshot of the database and
write it to a local gzip-compressed file. In the example below, we take
a snapshot and save it as a `backup.snap`:

```shell-session
$ waypoint server snapshot backup.snap
```

~> **Warning!** The snapshot data contains secret and sensitive information
(such as auth tokens) _unencrypted_. Snapshots are highly sensitive and should
be carefully protected.

You can then restore this snapshot using [`waypoint server restore`](/waypoint/commands/server-restore).
This command _stages_ the restore but _does not_ activate the restore. This means
that the old data (prior to the restore) will continue to be the live data
until the restore is activated. To activate the restore, you must restart the server. You may call restore
multiple times to stage different backups; each call will overwrite the last
staged restore.

```shell-session
$ waypoint server restore backup.snap
```

If you are running the Waypoint server in an environment that will automatically
restart it for you (such as Kubernetes or Nomad), then you may pass the
`-exit` flag to `waypoint server restore`. This will cause the Waypoint server
to abruptly exit after staging the restore. This expects that the underlying
platform will restart the process after noticing it has died.

#### Offline Restore with a Snapshot

You can restore a server with a snapshot taken when the server was online
via `waypoint server snapshot`.

In the server data directory (where the `data.db` file would normally be),
copy the snapshot data and name the file `waypoint-restore.db`. For example,
if you normally run the Waypoint server as `waypoint server -db=/data/data.db`
then you should copy the snapshot data to `/data/waypoint-restore.db`.

The real database doesn't need to exist; the restore process also works with
new, fresh servers. However, the snapshot data must still be named `waypoint-restore.db`.

Start or restart the server. On boot, it will notice the existence of a
restore snapshot and attempt to restore. The logs should contain information
about the restore. If the restore fails, the server will not start.

#### Snapshot Version Compatibility

Online snapshots are safe to restore against any version of Waypoint.

If a snapshot is incompatible, an error will be shown on start and no existing
data will be corrupted. We intend for snapshots to remain compatible with
all future versions of Waypoint. If there are any exceptions, it'll be noted
in the upgrade guide. Please always read the upgrade guide for all versions
leading up to the version you're installing.

#### Offline Backup

In an emergency, you may perform an offline backup by copying the database file
directly. In this case, you may restore the backup offline by replacing the
database file.

~> **This method of backup is not recommended.** The raw database file
compatibility is not guaranteed across versions. It is highly recommended
you perform online snapshots with online _or_ offline restores using that
snapshot data.
