website/content/docs/projects/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Projects
description: |-
  A project in Waypoint is a 1:1 mapping to a VCS repository (if one exists). A project can be comprised of one or more applications. Each application in a project represents a single thing that can be deployed.
---

# Projects

A project in Waypoint is a 1:1 mapping to a VCS repository (if one exists).
A project can be comprised of one or more applications. Each application in
a project represents a single thing that can be deployed. A project is the
first thing you ever create after installing Waypoint.

Every project has an associated [waypoint.hcl configuration](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl).
This configuration can be a file that is committed alongside the project
in version control, or it can be stored on the server and associated with
your project by name.

Depending on how a project is configured, it can be deployed through the
local CLI, by clicking a button in the UI, triggered by changes in Git, or any
mix of the aforementioned methods.

## Creating a Project

A project can be created in multiple ways. The recommended approach is
via the web UI. Information about each approach is documented below.

In each approach, you'll have to have a [waypoint.hcl configuration](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl)
ready. The `waypoint.hcl` configuration can be stored either alongside
your project's source or within the Waypoint server. You can find more
details about where to place the `waypoint.hcl` [here](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#waypoint-hcl-location).

### Web UI

When creating a new project through the UI, you can automatically log into the
dashboard by running `waypoint ui -authenticate` on the CLI after installing Waypoint.

![new-install](/img/new-waypoint-install-ui.png)

From here, you can click on the `New project` button to create a new Waypoint
project.

![new-project](/img/new-waypoint-project.png)

Follow the instructions, and optionally [enable connect a Git repository](/waypoint/docs/projects/git)
to the project.

![project-created](/img/waypoint-project-created.png)

And there you have it! You are now ready to [deploy a project](#deploying-a-project)
using Waypoint! Read on to learn more about how to use a project once it has been
created.

### `waypoint init`

If you have written a [waypoint.hcl file](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl), you can
use the [`waypoint init`](/waypoint/commands/init) command to initialize the project.

You must run this command in the same directory or in a child directory of
the `waypoint.hcl` file. This will create and configure the project if it is
not already created. If you wish to update an already-existing project,
specify the `-update` flag.

```shell-session
$ waypoint init
✓ Configuration file appears valid
✓ Connection to Waypoint server was successful
✓ Project "example-project" and all apps are registered with the server.
✓ Plugins loaded and configured successfully

Project initialized!

You may now call 'waypoint up' to deploy your project or
commands such as 'waypoint build' to perform steps individually.
```

### `waypoint project apply`

This is the most advanced and lowest level approach to creating or modifying
a project. The [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply) command
is a thin layer in front of the direct project API. You can use this command
to create or update a project:

```
$ waypoint project apply \
   -data-source=git \
   -git-auth-type=ssh \
   -git-private-key-path=$HOME/.ssh/id_ed25519 \
   -git-url=git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git \
   example-project
```

## Deploying a Project

Once a project is created and [configured](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl), you
can now deploy the project.

If you have the repository checked out with a `waypoint.hcl` locally,
you can run `waypoint up` and perform a local deploy. If your project was
configured to [automatically poll a git repository](/waypoint/docs/projects/git), Waypoint
will automatically begin the process to build and deploy your application.

## Multiple Applications

Most projects contain exactly one application. An example of a project
with multiple applications may be a single repository that contains an
"API" service and a "frontend" application in the same repository.

Organizations that follow a
[monorepo pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo) may have many
applications inside a single project. For monorepo users, a project MUST
represent exactly one repository, but it does not have to represent a
_unique_ repository, so monorepo users may create multiple projects pointing
to the same repository.

One simple example of this one-to-many pattern is the [waypoint-examples](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples/)
repository. The repository contains many Waypoint projects, and each project
in a sub-dir of the `waypoint-examples` repo maps to this single repository.

Support for this is seen in the GitOps workflow, where a user specifies
the parent repo to map to the project and can optionally specify
a [Git source path](/waypoint/commands/project-apply#git-path).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/projects/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Projects
description: |-
  A project in Waypoint is a 1:1 mapping to a VCS repository (if one exists). A project can be comprised of one or more applications. Each application in a project represents a single thing that can be deployed.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Projects

A project in Waypoint is a 1:1 mapping to a VCS repository (if one exists).
A project can be comprised of one or more applications. Each application in
a project represents a single thing that can be deployed. A project is the
first thing you ever create after installing Waypoint.

Every project has an associated [waypoint.hcl configuration](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl).
This configuration can be a file that is committed alongside the project
in version control, or it can be stored on the server and associated with
your project by name.

Depending on how a project is configured, it can be deployed through the
local CLI, by clicking a button in the UI, triggered by changes in Git, or any
mix of the aforementioned methods.

## Creating a Project

A project can be created in multiple ways. The recommended approach is
via the web UI. Information about each approach is documented below.

In each approach, you'll have to have a [waypoint.hcl configuration](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl)
ready. The `waypoint.hcl` configuration can be stored either alongside
your project's source or within the Waypoint server. You can find more
details about where to place the `waypoint.hcl` [here](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl#waypoint-hcl-location).

### Web UI

When creating a new project through the UI, you can automatically log into the
dashboard by running `waypoint ui -authenticate` on the CLI after installing Waypoint.

![new-install](/img/new-waypoint-install-ui.png)

From here, you can click on the `New project` button to create a new Waypoint
project.

![new-project](/img/new-waypoint-project.png)

Follow the instructions, and optionally [enable connect a Git repository](/waypoint/docs/projects/git)
to the project.

![project-created](/img/waypoint-project-created.png)

And there you have it! You are now ready to [deploy a project](#deploying-a-project)
using Waypoint! Read on to learn more about how to use a project once it has been
created.

### `waypoint init`

If you have written a [waypoint.hcl file](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl), you can
use the [`waypoint init`](/waypoint/commands/init) command to initialize the project.

You must run this command in the same directory or in a child directory of
the `waypoint.hcl` file. This will create and configure the project if it is
not already created. If you wish to update an already-existing project,
specify the `-update` flag.

```shell-session
$ waypoint init
✓ Configuration file appears valid
✓ Connection to Waypoint server was successful
✓ Project "example-project" and all apps are registered with the server.
✓ Plugins loaded and configured successfully

Project initialized!

You may now call 'waypoint up' to deploy your project or
commands such as 'waypoint build' to perform steps individually.
```

### `waypoint project apply`

This is the most advanced and lowest level approach to creating or modifying
a project. The [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply) command
is a thin layer in front of the direct project API. You can use this command
to create or update a project:

```
$ waypoint project apply \
   -data-source=git \
   -git-auth-type=ssh \
   -git-private-key-path=$HOME/.ssh/id_ed25519 \
   -git-url=git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git \
   example-project
```

## Deploying a Project

Once a project is created and [configured](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl), you
can now deploy the project.

If you have the repository checked out with a `waypoint.hcl` locally,
you can run `waypoint up` and perform a local deploy. If your project was
configured to [automatically poll a git repository](/waypoint/docs/projects/git), Waypoint
will automatically begin the process to build and deploy your application.

## Multiple Applications

Most projects contain exactly one application. An example of a project
with multiple applications may be a single repository that contains an
"API" service and a "frontend" application in the same repository.

Organizations that follow a
[monorepo pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo) may have many
applications inside a single project. For monorepo users, a project MUST
represent exactly one repository, but it does not have to represent a
_unique_ repository, so monorepo users may create multiple projects pointing
to the same repository.

One simple example of this one-to-many pattern is the [waypoint-examples](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples/)
repository. The repository contains many Waypoint projects, and each project
in a sub-dir of the `waypoint-examples` repo maps to this single repository.

Support for this is seen in the GitOps workflow, where a user specifies
the parent repo to map to the project and can optionally specify
a [Git source path](/waypoint/commands/project-apply#git-path).
