website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/config.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: config - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `config` stanza configures [application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config). Application configuration sets environment variables for your application that is either statically set or synced with an external system.
---

# `config` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['config'], ['app', 'config']]} />

The `config` stanza configures [application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config).
Application configuration sets environment variables or writes files for
your application. Application configuration can use static values or by synced
with an external system.
Application configuration can be set via the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the `config` stanza as well as via the [CLI](/waypoint/commands/config-set).

-> **To learn about application configuration more broadly** please also read the
[application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config) docs. The dedicated application
configuration section goes into more detail about how application configuration
works with Waypoint. This page is specifically about the `config` stanza
in the `waypoint.hcl` file and _does not_ cover the application configuration
system more broadly.

## Project vs. App Scope

The `config` stanza can appear at the project (root) level or within
an `app`. Configuration set at the project level is used for all applications
and merged with any app-scoped configuration. Configuration set within an
`app` stanza is only set for that application. If there are any conflicting
values, the app-scoped value overrides the project-scoped value.

The example below shows configuration set at both the project and app scope.
In this case, these will be merged and the app will have both the `THEME`
and `PORT` environment variables set.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    THEME = "rainbow"
  }
}

app "frontend" {
  config {
    env = {
      PORT = 8080
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

### Further Scoping: Workspaces and Labels

In both the project and app scope, a configuration can be further scoped
to only exist in a specific workspace or label set for a deployment.
For more information, see the
[workspace and label-scoping documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope).

## Syncing

Changes to `config` in the `waypoint.hcl` file take effect only during
the scenarios listed below:

1. `waypoint up` - A full build, deploy, release will resync configuration.
1. `waypoint deploy` - This is useful when you want to redeploy but don't
   want to rebuild the application.
1. `waypoint config sync` - This is useful when you want to update the
   configuration but don't want to redeploy the application.

When the configuration is synced, any values set in the file will overwrite
values that may have been set manually via the CLI. Any configuration set in the CLI
that was not set in the configuration file will remain unchanged.

Synced configuration impacts _all_ versions of a deployed application. All
deployed applications will subsequently be restarted or signaled if configuration values
changed.

## `config` Parameters

### Optional

- `env` `(map<string>ConfigValue: {})` - Environment variables to set
  for the deployed application. See the `ConfigValue` section below on more
  details on valid values for this map.

- `file` `(map<string>string: {})` - Files to write at runtime for the
  deployed application. The key is the path to write the file and the value
  is the file contents. If the path is relative, it is relative to the working
  directory of the deployment. The value is usually paired with
  [templating functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/template). See
  the [configuration file documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files) for more information.

- `file_change_signal` `(string: "USR2")` - The signal to send to the deployed
  application when a configuration file changes.

- `internal` `(map<string>ConfigValue: {})` - Internal variables use the
  same syntax as `env` but are not exposed directly to the application. Instead,
  these values may be referenced using `config.internal.NAME` within `env`
  values or `file` values. See the
  [internal values documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) for more information.

- `workspace` <code>([config](#config-parameters))</code> - Define
  [workspace-scoped configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope#workspace-scoping).
  The label for the stanza is the name of a workspace to exactly match.

- `label` <code>([config](#config-parameters))</code> - Define
  [label-scoped configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope#label-scoping).
  The label for the stanza is a label selector.

## `ConfigValue`

A `ConfigValue` type is used to configure the value of a configuration key
such as within `env`.

### Primitive Values

A configuration value can be set to a primitive value such as a string
or number. This will be coerced into a string and set as a static configuration
value. In the example below, we set the `PORT` environment variable using
a static value:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = 8080
  }
}
```

### Dynamic Value

A configuration value can be sourced from an external system using the
`dynamic` function. This function creates a `ConfigValue` and can only be used
within a `config` stanza or as a
[default value for an input variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic).
In the example below, we synchronize a value with a Kubernetes ConfigMap:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = dynamic("kubernetes", {
      name = "my-app" # ConfigMap name
      key  = "port"
    })
  }
}
```

And in another example, we use `dynamic` to source a value for a variable:

```hcl
variable "image_name" {
  type    = string
  default = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
    organization = "foocorp"
    workspace    = "images"
    output       = "name"
  })
}
```

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/config.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: config - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `config` stanza configures [application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config). Application configuration sets environment variables for your application that is either statically set or synced with an external system.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `config` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['config'], ['app', 'config']]} />

The `config` stanza configures [application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config).
Application configuration sets environment variables or writes files for
your application. Application configuration can use static values or by synced
with an external system.
Application configuration can be set via the `waypoint.hcl` file using
the `config` stanza as well as via the [CLI](/waypoint/commands/config-set).

-> **To learn about application configuration more broadly** please also read the
[application configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config) docs. The dedicated application
configuration section goes into more detail about how application configuration
works with Waypoint. This page is specifically about the `config` stanza
in the `waypoint.hcl` file and _does not_ cover the application configuration
system more broadly.

## Project vs. App Scope

The `config` stanza can appear at the project (root) level or within
an `app`. Configuration set at the project level is used for all applications
and merged with any app-scoped configuration. Configuration set within an
`app` stanza is only set for that application. If there are any conflicting
values, the app-scoped value overrides the project-scoped value.

The example below shows configuration set at both the project and app scope.
In this case, these will be merged and the app will have both the `THEME`
and `PORT` environment variables set.

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    THEME = "rainbow"
  }
}

app "frontend" {
  config {
    env = {
      PORT = 8080
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

### Further Scoping: Workspaces and Labels

In both the project and app scope, a configuration can be further scoped
to only exist in a specific workspace or label set for a deployment.
For more information, see the
[workspace and label-scoping documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope).

## Syncing

Changes to `config` in the `waypoint.hcl` file take effect only during
the scenarios listed below:

1. `waypoint up` - A full build, deploy, release will resync configuration.
1. `waypoint deploy` - This is useful when you want to redeploy but don't
   want to rebuild the application.
1. `waypoint config sync` - This is useful when you want to update the
   configuration but don't want to redeploy the application.

When the configuration is synced, any values set in the file will overwrite
values that may have been set manually via the CLI. Any configuration set in the CLI
that was not set in the configuration file will remain unchanged.

Synced configuration impacts _all_ versions of a deployed application. All
deployed applications will subsequently be restarted or signaled if configuration values
changed.

## `config` Parameters

### Optional

- `env` `(map<string>ConfigValue: {})` - Environment variables to set
  for the deployed application. See the `ConfigValue` section below on more
  details on valid values for this map.

- `file` `(map<string>string: {})` - Files to write at runtime for the
  deployed application. The key is the path to write the file and the value
  is the file contents. If the path is relative, it is relative to the working
  directory of the deployment. The value is usually paired with
  [templating functions](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/functions/template). See
  the [configuration file documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/files) for more information.

- `file_change_signal` `(string: "USR2")` - The signal to send to the deployed
  application when a configuration file changes.

- `internal` `(map<string>ConfigValue: {})` - Internal variables use the
  same syntax as `env` but are not exposed directly to the application. Instead,
  these values may be referenced using `config.internal.NAME` within `env`
  values or `file` values. See the
  [internal values documentation](/waypoint/docs/app-config/internal) for more information.

- `workspace` <code>([config](#config-parameters))</code> - Define
  [workspace-scoped configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope#workspace-scoping).
  The label for the stanza is the name of a workspace to exactly match.

- `label` <code>([config](#config-parameters))</code> - Define
  [label-scoped configuration](/waypoint/docs/app-config/scope#label-scoping).
  The label for the stanza is a label selector.

## `ConfigValue`

A `ConfigValue` type is used to configure the value of a configuration key
such as within `env`.

### Primitive Values

A configuration value can be set to a primitive value such as a string
or number. This will be coerced into a string and set as a static configuration
value. In the example below, we set the `PORT` environment variable using
a static value:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = 8080
  }
}
```

### Dynamic Value

A configuration value can be sourced from an external system using the
`dynamic` function. This function creates a `ConfigValue` and can only be used
within a `config` stanza or as a
[default value for an input variable](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/dynamic).
In the example below, we synchronize a value with a Kubernetes ConfigMap:

```hcl
config {
  env = {
    PORT = dynamic("kubernetes", {
      name = "my-app" # ConfigMap name
      key  = "port"
    })
  }
}
```

And in another example, we use `dynamic` to source a value for a variable:

```hcl
variable "image_name" {
  type    = string
  default = dynamic("terraform-cloud", {
    organization = "foocorp"
    workspace    = "images"
    output       = "name"
  })
}
```
