website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: hook - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `hook` stanza configures hooks that are executed before or after operations. This can be useful to do things such as perform a security scan on an image, run database migrations on a deploy, etc.
---

# `hook` Stanza

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'build', 'registry', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'deploy', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'release', 'hook'],
  ]}
/>

The `hook` stanza configures [hooks](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks) that are
executed before or after operations. This can be useful to do things such as
perform a security scan on an image, run database migrations on a deploy, etc.

Multiple `hook` stanzas can be specified. This will execute multiple
hooks for an operation. The behavior with multiple hooks is
[documented on the hooks lifecycle page](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks#execution-order).

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    # ...

    hook {
      when    = "before"
      command = ["./validate-creds.sh"]
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

## `hook` Parameters

### Required

- `when` `(string)` - When the hook should be executed. Either "before" or "after".

- `command` `(array<string>)` - The command to execute. The first element of
  the list is the command to execute and each remainder is an argument. By
  specifying this as a list of strings, you do not need to worry about
  escaping arguments.

### Optional

- `on_failure` `(string: "fail")` - Behavior when the hook fails. If this is
  "continue" then failures are ignored. Otherwise, a failure cases the entire
  operation to fail. See [failure behavior](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks#failure-behavior).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: hook - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `hook` stanza configures hooks that are executed before or after operations. This can be useful to do things such as perform a security scan on an image, run database migrations on a deploy, etc.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `hook` Stanza

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'build', 'registry', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'deploy', 'hook'],
    ['app', 'release', 'hook'],
  ]}
/>

The `hook` stanza configures [hooks](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks) that are
executed before or after operations. This can be useful to do things such as
perform a security scan on an image, run database migrations on a deploy, etc.

Multiple `hook` stanzas can be specified. This will execute multiple
hooks for an operation. The behavior with multiple hooks is
[documented on the hooks lifecycle page](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks#execution-order).

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    # ...

    hook {
      when    = "before"
      command = ["./validate-creds.sh"]
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

## `hook` Parameters

### Required

- `when` `(string)` - When the hook should be executed. Either "before" or "after".

- `command` `(array<string>)` - The command to execute. The first element of
  the list is the command to execute and each remainder is an argument. By
  specifying this as a list of strings, you do not need to worry about
  escaping arguments.

### Optional

- `on_failure` `(string: "fail")` - Behavior when the hook fails. If this is
  "continue" then failures are ignored. Otherwise, a failure cases the entire
  operation to fail. See [failure behavior](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks#failure-behavior).
