website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/plugin.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: plugin - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `plugin` stanza configures a plugin that will be used by the Waypoint configuration. This can set settings such as the checksum of the plugin, the kind of features the plugin supports, etc.
---

# `plugin` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['plugin']]} />

The `plugin` stanza configures a plugin that will be used by the Waypoint
configuration. This can set settings such as the checksum of the plugin,
the kind of features the plugin supports, etc.

The `plugin` stanza is **optional.** When you use a [`use`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use)
stanza, it implicitly defines a plugin that Waypoint will require. You do not
need to explicitly create a `plugin` configuration as well. You only need to
create a `plugin` stanza for additional plugin configuration.

Multiple `plugin` stanzas can be specified.

```hcl
plugin "my-platform" {
  checksum = "2cf24dba5fb0a30e26e83b2ac5b9e29e1b161e5c1fa7425e73043362938b9824"

  type {
    mapper   = true
    platform = true
  }
}

# ...
```

## `plugin` Parameters

### Label

The `plugin` stanza takes a label. The label of the stanza is the name
of the plugin. In the above example, the label is "my-platform"

The plugin name is significant because it defines how the plugin binary
will be named on the local system. See [plugin loading](/waypoint/docs/plugins) for more
information.

### Optional

- `checksum` `(string: "")` - A SHA-256 checksum for the external plugin binary.
  This has no effect for built-in plugins.

- `type` <code>([type](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/plugin#type-parameters): nil)</code> - The
  type of plugin that this is. A plugin can implement multiple types.

## `type` Parameters

The `type` stanza is used only within a `plugin` stanza. It defines what features
a plugin implements. Each field in the `type` stanza should be set to "true"
if the plugin implements that type.

### Optional

- `builder` `(bool: false)`

- `mapper` `(bool: false)`

- `platform` `(bool: false)`

- `registry` `(bool: false)`

- `releaser` `(bool: false)`

-> **Note: mappers are special.** A mapper type plugin is _always_ loaded,
because it may provide mapping functions used for other plugins to interoperate.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/plugin.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: plugin - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `plugin` stanza configures a plugin that will be used by the Waypoint configuration. This can set settings such as the checksum of the plugin, the kind of features the plugin supports, etc.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `plugin` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['plugin']]} />

The `plugin` stanza configures a plugin that will be used by the Waypoint
configuration. This can set settings such as the checksum of the plugin,
the kind of features the plugin supports, etc.

The `plugin` stanza is **optional.** When you use a [`use`](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use)
stanza, it implicitly defines a plugin that Waypoint will require. You do not
need to explicitly create a `plugin` configuration as well. You only need to
create a `plugin` stanza for additional plugin configuration.

Multiple `plugin` stanzas can be specified.

```hcl
plugin "my-platform" {
  checksum = "2cf24dba5fb0a30e26e83b2ac5b9e29e1b161e5c1fa7425e73043362938b9824"

  type {
    mapper   = true
    platform = true
  }
}

# ...
```

## `plugin` Parameters

### Label

The `plugin` stanza takes a label. The label of the stanza is the name
of the plugin. In the above example, the label is "my-platform"

The plugin name is significant because it defines how the plugin binary
will be named on the local system. See [plugin loading](/waypoint/docs/plugins) for more
information.

### Optional

- `checksum` `(string: "")` - A SHA-256 checksum for the external plugin binary.
  This has no effect for built-in plugins.

- `type` <code>([type](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/plugin#type-parameters): nil)</code> - The
  type of plugin that this is. A plugin can implement multiple types.

## `type` Parameters

The `type` stanza is used only within a `plugin` stanza. It defines what features
a plugin implements. Each field in the `type` stanza should be set to "true"
if the plugin implements that type.

### Optional

- `builder` `(bool: false)`

- `mapper` `(bool: false)`

- `platform` `(bool: false)`

- `registry` `(bool: false)`

- `releaser` `(bool: false)`

-> **Note: mappers are special.** A mapper type plugin is _always_ loaded,
because it may provide mapping functions used for other plugins to interoperate.
