website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/registry.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: registry - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `registry` stanza configures the result of a build to be pushed to a registry such as a Docker Registry, Artifactory, etc. A registry is used to make the result of a build available to the deployment platform.
---

# `registry` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['app', 'build', 'registry']]} />

The `registry` stanza configures the result of a build to be pushed
to a registry such as a Docker Registry, Amazon ECR, Artifactory, etc. A registry
is used to make the result of a build available to the deployment platform.

A `registry` is required unless using the Docker build plugin via a [CLI
runner](/waypoint/docs/runner#cli-runner). This is not the common case, and thusly almost
always a `registry` stanza should be used.

Please see the documentation on the
[registry phase of the Waypoint lifecycle](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build#registry)
for examples of when a registry is necessary and the behavior of Waypoint without a
registry specified.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "example.com/my-app"
        tag   = gitrefpretty()
      }

      hook {
        # ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `registry` Parameters

### Required

- `use` <code>([use][use])</code> - The plugin to use for pushing an artifact
  to a registry.

### Optional

- `hook` <code>([hook][hook]: nil)</code> - [Hooks](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks)
  to execute before and/or after the artifact is pushed to the registry.

[hook]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook 'Hook Stanza'
[use]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use 'Use Stanza'

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/registry.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: registry - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `registry` stanza configures the result of a build to be pushed to a registry such as a Docker Registry, Artifactory, etc. A registry is used to make the result of a build available to the deployment platform.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `registry` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['app', 'build', 'registry']]} />

The `registry` stanza configures the result of a build to be pushed
to a registry such as a Docker Registry, Amazon ECR, Artifactory, etc. A registry
is used to make the result of a build available to the deployment platform.

A `registry` is required unless using the Docker build plugin via a [CLI
runner](/waypoint/docs/runner#cli-runner). This is not the common case, and thusly almost
always a `registry` stanza should be used.

Please see the documentation on the
[registry phase of the Waypoint lifecycle](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/build#registry)
for examples of when a registry is necessary and the behavior of Waypoint without a
registry specified.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "example.com/my-app"
        tag   = gitrefpretty()
      }

      hook {
        # ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `registry` Parameters

### Required

- `use` <code>([use][use])</code> - The plugin to use for pushing an artifact
  to a registry.

### Optional

- `hook` <code>([hook][hook]: nil)</code> - [Hooks](/waypoint/docs/lifecycle/hooks)
  to execute before and/or after the artifact is pushed to the registry.

[hook]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/hook 'Hook Stanza'
[use]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/use 'Use Stanza'
