website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/runner.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: runner - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `runner` stanza configures a project for remote operations, Git polling, and more.
---

# `runner` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['runner'], ['app', 'runner']]} />

The `runner` stanza configures a project for [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner),
including configuring how to source a project's source code from Git and
configuring polling.

**The settings in this stanza only take effect when `waypoint init -update`
is called.**

The `runner` stanza is completely optional. The settings specified in the
`runner `stanza can also be specified using the [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply)
command or via the UI by creating or modifying a project.

```hcl
runner {
  enabled = true

  data_source "git" {
    url  = "https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git"
    path = "docker/nodejs"
  }
}
```

The above example enables [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner) and configures
the project to clone data from a GitHub repository.

-> **Note: these settings are usually configured via the CLI or UI.** We
recommend configuring things such as data sources in the CLI or UI to avoid
tying your `waypoint.hcl` to a specific repository or putting secrets such
as Git auth information in your `waypoint.hcl` file. See
[CLI or UI configuration](#cli-or-ui-configuration) for more details.

## CLI or UI Configuration

All of the settings in the `runner` stanza can be specified via the
CLI using [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply) or via
the UI in the project create or modify screens. This approach is preferable
since it avoids having to put secrets in your waypoint.hcl file and makes
your waypoint.hcl more portable since it doesn't specify a repository.

An example using the CLI is shown below. The example is admittedly a bit
unwieldy and not very user-friendly. The recommended approach is to use the web UI.

```shell-session
$ waypoint project apply \
   -data-source=git \
   -git-auth-type=ssh \
   -git-private-key-path=$HOME/.ssh/id_ed25519 \
   -git-url=git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git \
   -waypoint-hcl=waypoint.hcl \
   my-project
```

## `runner` Parameters

### Required

The `runner` stanza has no required parameters.

### Optional

- `enabled` `(boolean: false)` - This must be set to true to enable
  [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner) from the CLI. This only affects
  the CLI. Remote operations triggered via Git polling or directly via the
  API are still allowed.

- `data_source` <code>([data_source][data_source]: nil)</code> - Configuration
  for how to fetch the source for this project, such as from Git.

- `poll` <code>([poll][poll]: nil)</code> - Settings for polling the data
  source for changes and automatically running `waypoint up`. By default
  polling is disabled.

- `profile` `(string: "")` - The name of the runner profile to target for the
  project/app to use for remote operations.

## `data_source` Parameters

### Label

The `data_source` stanza takes a label, which is "git" in the example above.
The label of the stanza is the data source type to use. Currently, the only
supported value is "git", but this could be extended in the future to support
other data source types.

### Required Parameters

#### Git

- `url` `(string)` - The URL for the Git repository. This can be any URL supported
  by `git clone`. For example: `https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git`
  or `git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git`.

### Optional Parameters

#### Git

- `path` `(string: "")` - A relative path within the Git repository where
  the application is. This is used to determine the path to look for a
  `waypoint.hcl` and sets the working directory when executing commands.
  This defaults to the repository root.

- `username` `(string: "git")` - Username for basic auth or SSH. The default
  value is "git". For GitHub basic auth, this value can be any non-empty value.
  GitHub basic auth only uses the password.

- `password` `(password: "git")` - Password for basic auth. For GitHub, this
  is typically a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token).

- `key` `(string: "")` - A PEM-encoded SSH private key to use for SSH authentication.
  A valid value usually starts with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----` or something
  similar.

- `key_password` `(string: "")` - The password for the SSH private key if
  it is encrypted. This is only required if the private key is encrypted.

- `ref` `(string: "HEAD")` - The Git ref that is pulled for operations on
  this project. This can be a branch name, tag name, or a fully qualified
  Git ref such as `refs/pulls/1234`. This defaults to pulling HEAD, the
  latest commit on the default branch.

- `recurse_submodules` `(int: 0)` - The maximum depth to recursively clone
  submodules. A value of zero disable submodule cloning. This defaults to zero.

## `poll` Parameters

### Optional Parameters

- `enabled` `(boolean: false)` - True to enable [polling](/waypoint/docs/projects/git#polling).
  Polling requires that a valid datasource is configured.

- `interval` `(string: "30s")` - The interval between polling for changes.
  This defaults to 30 seconds.

[data_source]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#data_source-parameters 'data_source Stanza'
[poll]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#poll-parameters 'poll Stanza'

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/runner.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: runner - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `runner` stanza configures a project for remote operations, Git polling, and more.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `runner` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['runner'], ['app', 'runner']]} />

The `runner` stanza configures a project for [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner),
including configuring how to source a project's source code from Git and
configuring polling.

**The settings in this stanza only take effect when `waypoint init -update`
is called.**

The `runner` stanza is completely optional. The settings specified in the
`runner `stanza can also be specified using the [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply)
command or via the UI by creating or modifying a project.

```hcl
runner {
  enabled = true

  data_source "git" {
    url  = "https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git"
    path = "docker/nodejs"
  }
}
```

The above example enables [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner) and configures
the project to clone data from a GitHub repository.

-> **Note: these settings are usually configured via the CLI or UI.** We
recommend configuring things such as data sources in the CLI or UI to avoid
tying your `waypoint.hcl` to a specific repository or putting secrets such
as Git auth information in your `waypoint.hcl` file. See
[CLI or UI configuration](#cli-or-ui-configuration) for more details.

## CLI or UI Configuration

All of the settings in the `runner` stanza can be specified via the
CLI using [`waypoint project apply`](/waypoint/commands/project-apply) or via
the UI in the project create or modify screens. This approach is preferable
since it avoids having to put secrets in your waypoint.hcl file and makes
your waypoint.hcl more portable since it doesn't specify a repository.

An example using the CLI is shown below. The example is admittedly a bit
unwieldy and not very user-friendly. The recommended approach is to use the web UI.

```shell-session
$ waypoint project apply \
   -data-source=git \
   -git-auth-type=ssh \
   -git-private-key-path=$HOME/.ssh/id_ed25519 \
   -git-url=git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git \
   -waypoint-hcl=waypoint.hcl \
   my-project
```

## `runner` Parameters

### Required

The `runner` stanza has no required parameters.

### Optional

- `enabled` `(boolean: false)` - This must be set to true to enable
  [remote operations](/waypoint/docs/runner) from the CLI. This only affects
  the CLI. Remote operations triggered via Git polling or directly via the
  API are still allowed.

- `data_source` <code>([data_source][data_source]: nil)</code> - Configuration
  for how to fetch the source for this project, such as from Git.

- `poll` <code>([poll][poll]: nil)</code> - Settings for polling the data
  source for changes and automatically running `waypoint up`. By default
  polling is disabled.

- `profile` `(string: "")` - The name of the runner profile to target for the
  project/app to use for remote operations.

## `data_source` Parameters

### Label

The `data_source` stanza takes a label, which is "git" in the example above.
The label of the stanza is the data source type to use. Currently, the only
supported value is "git", but this could be extended in the future to support
other data source types.

### Required Parameters

#### Git

- `url` `(string)` - The URL for the Git repository. This can be any URL supported
  by `git clone`. For example: `https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git`
  or `git@github.com:hashicorp/waypoint-examples.git`.

### Optional Parameters

#### Git

- `path` `(string: "")` - A relative path within the Git repository where
  the application is. This is used to determine the path to look for a
  `waypoint.hcl` and sets the working directory when executing commands.
  This defaults to the repository root.

- `username` `(string: "git")` - Username for basic auth or SSH. The default
  value is "git". For GitHub basic auth, this value can be any non-empty value.
  GitHub basic auth only uses the password.

- `password` `(password: "git")` - Password for basic auth. For GitHub, this
  is typically a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token).

- `key` `(string: "")` - A PEM-encoded SSH private key to use for SSH authentication.
  A valid value usually starts with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----` or something
  similar.

- `key_password` `(string: "")` - The password for the SSH private key if
  it is encrypted. This is only required if the private key is encrypted.

- `ref` `(string: "HEAD")` - The Git ref that is pulled for operations on
  this project. This can be a branch name, tag name, or a fully qualified
  Git ref such as `refs/pulls/1234`. This defaults to pulling HEAD, the
  latest commit on the default branch.

- `recurse_submodules` `(int: 0)` - The maximum depth to recursively clone
  submodules. A value of zero disable submodule cloning. This defaults to zero.

## `poll` Parameters

### Optional Parameters

- `enabled` `(boolean: false)` - True to enable [polling](/waypoint/docs/projects/git#polling).
  Polling requires that a valid datasource is configured.

- `interval` `(string: "30s")` - The interval between polling for changes.
  This defaults to 30 seconds.

[data_source]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#data_source-parameters 'data_source Stanza'
[poll]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config#poll-parameters 'poll Stanza'
