website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/url.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: url - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `url` stanza configures the behavior of the [URL service](/waypoint/docs/url) for the given application. This allows for certain applications to opt-out of the URL service, opt-in, etc.
---

# `url` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['app', 'url']]} />

The `url` stanza configures the behavior of the [URL service](/waypoint/docs/url)
for the given application. This allows for certain applications to opt-out
of automatic hostname registration with the URL service, opt-in, etc.

The `url` stanza is **optional.** If it is not specified, the default
URL settings configured with the Waypoint server will be used. The "default
settings" are the URL settings for the running Waypoint server. These settings
determine if the URL service is enabled at all along with whether apps
get a hostname by default.

If the URL service is not enabled on the server, then the settings specified
here have no effect.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    # ...
  }

  deploy {
    # ...
  }

  release {
    # ...
  }

  url {
    auto_hostname = false
  }

}
```

## Opt-Out and Opt-in

This stanza allows applications to opt-out or opt-in to automatic hostname
registration with the URL service.

Hostname registration is what makes an app routable with the URL service.
If an app has no registered hostname, it can't be routed to. The default value
of whether an app gets a registered hostname is determined based on the
server configuration.

### Opt-Out

To opt-out of hostname registration, specify `auto_hostname = false`:

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  url {
    auto_hostname = false
  }
}
```

If you're using the entrypoint, the entrypoint will still connect to the
URL service, but routing will be disabled until a hostname is registered.
There is no way currently to prevent the entrypoint from connecting to the
URL service altogether.

### Opt-In

To opt-in to hostname registration, specify `auto_hostname = true`:

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  url {
    auto_hostname = true
  }
}
```

If the URL service is enabled on the server and the default behavior
configured on the server is for apps to not have a hostname registered, this
will opt the application in to getting a hostname by default.

## `url` Parameters

### Optional

- `auto_hostname` `(bool: <server configuration>)` - Whether to automatically
  generate a hostname for the application (and deployments) with the URL service.
  If this is disabled, you can manually use the `waypoint hostname` CLI to manage
  hostnames. If this is not specified, the default setting set at the server level
  will be used.

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/url.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: url - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `url` stanza configures the behavior of the [URL service](/waypoint/docs/url) for the given application. This allows for certain applications to opt-out of the URL service, opt-in, etc.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `url` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['app', 'url']]} />

The `url` stanza configures the behavior of the [URL service](/waypoint/docs/url)
for the given application. This allows for certain applications to opt-out
of automatic hostname registration with the URL service, opt-in, etc.

The `url` stanza is **optional.** If it is not specified, the default
URL settings configured with the Waypoint server will be used. The "default
settings" are the URL settings for the running Waypoint server. These settings
determine if the URL service is enabled at all along with whether apps
get a hostname by default.

If the URL service is not enabled on the server, then the settings specified
here have no effect.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    # ...
  }

  deploy {
    # ...
  }

  release {
    # ...
  }

  url {
    auto_hostname = false
  }

}
```

## Opt-Out and Opt-in

This stanza allows applications to opt-out or opt-in to automatic hostname
registration with the URL service.

Hostname registration is what makes an app routable with the URL service.
If an app has no registered hostname, it can't be routed to. The default value
of whether an app gets a registered hostname is determined based on the
server configuration.

### Opt-Out

To opt-out of hostname registration, specify `auto_hostname = false`:

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  url {
    auto_hostname = false
  }
}
```

If you're using the entrypoint, the entrypoint will still connect to the
URL service, but routing will be disabled until a hostname is registered.
There is no way currently to prevent the entrypoint from connecting to the
URL service altogether.

### Opt-In

To opt-in to hostname registration, specify `auto_hostname = true`:

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  url {
    auto_hostname = true
  }
}
```

If the URL service is enabled on the server and the default behavior
configured on the server is for apps to not have a hostname registered, this
will opt the application in to getting a hostname by default.

## `url` Parameters

### Optional

- `auto_hostname` `(bool: <server configuration>)` - Whether to automatically
  generate a hostname for the application (and deployments) with the URL service.
  If this is disabled, you can manually use the `waypoint hostname` CLI to manage
  hostnames. If this is not specified, the default setting set at the server level
  will be used.
