website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/use.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: use - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `use` stanza specifies the name and configuration of a plugin to use for an operation.
---

# `use` Stanza

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'use'],
    ['app', 'build', 'registry', 'use'],
    ['app', 'deploy', 'use'],
    ['app', 'release', 'use'],
  ]}
/>

The `use` stanza specifies the name and configuration of a plugin to use for
an operation. The type of plugin depends on the context of the `use` stanza.
For example: a `use` stanza within a `build` configures the builder plugin
to use.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    use "docker" {
      buildkit = true
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

## `use` Parameters

### Label

The `use` stanza takes a label. The label of the stanza is the name
of the plugin to use.

The plugin name must match the name of a [built-in plugin](/waypoint/integrations?flags=builtin)
or an [external plugin](/waypoint/docs/plugins). The plugin will be validated as part of
the `waypoint init` process.

### Parameters

The parameters of a `use` stanza are defined by the plugin being used.
You must look at the documentation of the plugin you're using to determine
the available configuration options.

As an example, if you were using the Docker builder you could find
the available parameters [documented here](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/builder#parameters).

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/use.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: use - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `use` stanza specifies the name and configuration of a plugin to use for an operation.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `use` Stanza

<Placement
  groups={[
    ['app', 'build', 'use'],
    ['app', 'build', 'registry', 'use'],
    ['app', 'deploy', 'use'],
    ['app', 'release', 'use'],
  ]}
/>

The `use` stanza specifies the name and configuration of a plugin to use for
an operation. The type of plugin depends on the context of the `use` stanza.
For example: a `use` stanza within a `build` configures the builder plugin
to use.

```hcl
app "frontend" {
  build {
    use "docker" {
      buildkit = true
    }
  }

  # ...
}
```

## `use` Parameters

### Label

The `use` stanza takes a label. The label of the stanza is the name
of the plugin to use.

The plugin name must match the name of a [built-in plugin](/waypoint/integrations?flags=builtin)
or an [external plugin](/waypoint/docs/plugins). The plugin will be validated as part of
the `waypoint init` process.

### Parameters

The parameters of a `use` stanza are defined by the plugin being used.
You must look at the documentation of the plugin you're using to determine
the available configuration options.

As an example, if you were using the Docker builder you could find
the available parameters [documented here](/waypoint/integrations/hashicorp/docker/latest/components/builder#parameters).
