website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variable.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: variable - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `variable` stanza declares a variable for use in other stanzas in the config.
---

# `variable` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['variable']]} />

The `variable` stanza declares a variable and makes it available for use in
other stanzas in the config. Read more about
[defining and using variables here](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input).

```hcl
variable "key" {
  # ...
}
```

Multiple `variable` stanzas can be specified; there is no limit to the number
of variables you can define for your configuration.

```hcl
variable "image" {
  # ...
}

variable "tag" {
  # ...
}
```

Supply a value to a specified `variable` with one of the following methods:

- the [`default`][inpage-default] value in the definition block
- an environment variable on the runner specified by `env` in the definition block
- the parameter `-var key=value`
- the parameter `-var-file=filename`, where `filename` is the name of a file
  with variable values
- an environment variable prefixed with `WP_VAR_`
- a file of variable values with the suffix `.auto.wpvars`
- the Waypoint UI

## `variable` Parameters

### Optional

[inpage-default]: #default

- `default` `(string: "")` - Sets a default value for the variable.
  Must be set to `null` if no value is set by other sources.

- `type` <code>(string: [expression][expression])</code> - A type constraint
  to apply to values for the defined variable.

- `description` `(string: "")` - A short summary documenting what the variable
  is and its purpose.

- `env` `(list of string: [])` - Sets a set of environment variables to source
  a default value from if a value is not set. The environment variables are read
  only on the runner. See [environment variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#environment-variables) for more information.

[expression]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax/expressions#types-and-values 'Expressions: Types and Values'

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/waypoint-hcl/variable.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: variable - waypoint.hcl
description: |-
  The `variable` stanza declares a variable for use in other stanzas in the config.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# `variable` Stanza

<Placement groups={[['variable']]} />

The `variable` stanza declares a variable and makes it available for use in
other stanzas in the config. Read more about
[defining and using variables here](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input).

```hcl
variable "key" {
  # ...
}
```

Multiple `variable` stanzas can be specified; there is no limit to the number
of variables you can define for your configuration.

```hcl
variable "image" {
  # ...
}

variable "tag" {
  # ...
}
```

Supply a value to a specified `variable` with one of the following methods:

- the [`default`][inpage-default] value in the definition block
- an environment variable on the runner specified by `env` in the definition block
- the parameter `-var key=value`
- the parameter `-var-file=filename`, where `filename` is the name of a file
  with variable values
- an environment variable prefixed with `WP_VAR_`
- a file of variable values with the suffix `.auto.wpvars`
- the Waypoint UI

## `variable` Parameters

### Optional

[inpage-default]: #default

- `default` `(string: "")` - Sets a default value for the variable.
  Must be set to `null` if no value is set by other sources.

- `type` <code>(string: [expression][expression])</code> - A type constraint
  to apply to values for the defined variable.

- `description` `(string: "")` - A short summary documenting what the variable
  is and its purpose.

- `env` `(list of string: [])` - Sets a set of environment variables to source
  a default value from if a value is not set. The environment variables are read
  only on the runner. See [environment variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#environment-variables) for more information.

[expression]: /waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/syntax/expressions#types-and-values 'Expressions: Types and Values'
