website/content/docs/use-cases/blue-green-deployment.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Blue-Green Deployments with Waypoint, Nomad and Consul
description: |-
  Waypoint enables advanced deployment workflows like blue-green deployments, orchestrated with Nomad and Consul.
---

# Blue-Green Deployments with Waypoint, Nomad and Consul

In addition to common methods of deploying applications, HashiCorp Waypoint supports
the orchestration of advanced deployment workflows, such as blue-green deployments.
A blue-green deployment is where a new version of an application is deployed alongside
the existing version in a separate environment. While both versions are running, DNS is
updated to split traffic flowing to the application between the new and existing
versions of the app. This enables essentially nil downtime for the application
during deployments in most cases, but also enables operators to provide the experience
of the new version of an application to a certain percentage of users without
forcing all users to use the newer version. Depending upon feedback and testing
while the new version is live and processing a partial amount of traffic, a decision
is made to either promote or roll back the new version, and DNS is again updated
to route 100% of traffic to all instances running the application.

In the HashiStack, this is made possible with features from the workload orchestration
tool, HashiCorp Nomad, and the service networking tool, HashiCorp Consul. Nomad
enables operators to deploy [canary](/nomad/docs/job-specification/update#canary)
instances of a newer version of an application without destroying the existing
instances. The canary deployment can be auto-promoted when "healthy", or manually
promoted by operators. Consul plays a role as well through service configuration
entries. The [service resolver](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver)
config entry controls which instances of a service should be matched by downstream
requests made to the service, which can be [filtered](/consul/api-docs/features/filtering)
by service tags. A [service splitter](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-splitter)
config entry splits a configured percentage of traffic to resolvers. These features
of Nomad and Consul work together by the canary instances of a new Nomad job version
registering new instances of a Consul service with [canary tags](/nomad/docs/job-specification/service#canary_tags).
The tags applied to the canary instances of the service match a service resolver.
The service splitter is then updated while both the new and old application instances
are running to split some percentage of traffic between the resolver for the new
and old instances of the service.

To achieve this, a series of commands or API calls would need to be run manually,
or automated through scripts or some other means; but [Waypoint pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines)
can orchestrate this! Waypoint pipelines can execute configured phases of your app's build, deployment,
and release lifecycle, and run custom steps such as modifying Consul config
entries to configure DNS to route traffic to your canary deployment instances.

An example where this is configured is located [here](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green).
The Waypoint configuration file contains three pipelines, and each one will be
described in this use case.

## Waypoint Configuration

### Pre-Requisites

If experimenting with this use case, it will be helpful to have some familiarity
with the tools and concepts listed below.

- [Waypoint CLI](/waypoint/downloads)
  - [Context created](/waypoint/docs/server/auth#logging-in) and connected to local Waypoint server or HCP Waypoint server
- Waypoint [runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual#installing-a-runner)
  - Must be able to connect to HashiCorp Nomad & HashiCorp Consul clusters
- Waypoint [runner configuration](/waypoint/docs/runner/config)
  - Used to connect to HashiCorp Nomad
- Docker registry
  - Credentials to push a build to the registry
- [HashiCorp Consul](/consul) cluster
- [HashiCorp Nomad](/nomad) cluster
  - [Integrated with Consul cluster](/nomad/docs/integrations/consul-integration)
- [Consul DNS](/consul/tutorials/networking/dns-forwarding)
- `curl`

### Pipelines

#### Pipeline 1: build-and-blue-green-deployment

This pipeline builds the application image, and subsequently executes pipeline #2
using a nested pipeline.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-blue-green-deployment" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {
      disable_push = false
    }
  }

  step "blue-green-deployment-pipeline" {
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green"
      name    = "blue-green-deployment"
    }
  }
}
```

The `build` step uses the `build` stanza of the "app" that is configured later in
the Waypoint configuration. This build uses the build pack plugin to build an image
and then pushes it to a Docker registry.

```hcl
// omitted other stanzas for brevity
build {
    use "pack" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "devopspaladin/hashitalks-deploy"
        tag   = "latest"
        auth {
          // Credentials are supplied here for authentication to push to a registry.
          username = var.username
          password = var.password
        }
      }
    }
  }
//
```

#### Pipeline 2: blue-green-deployment

This pipeline deploys the build artifact to Nomad, and updates Consul to split
traffic 50/50 between new and old service instances. This pipeline is configured
separately, so that in scenarios where the code does not need to be re-built into
a new Docker image, the pipeline run time will be less, because it will run only
the deployment, and not a build.

```hcl
pipeline "blue-green-deployment" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "split-traffic-to-green" {
    image_url = "consul"

    use "exec" {
      command = "sh"
      args = [
        "-c",
        "curl -o green-splitter.consul.hcl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/main/consul/green-splitter.consul.hcl && consul config write -http-addr=${var.consul_address} green-splitter.consul.hcl",
      ]
    }
  }
}

// omitted other stanzas for brevity
  deploy {
    use "nomad-jobspec" {
      jobspec = templatefile("${path.app}/nomad/job.nomad.tpl", {
        // The registry username and password are passed to the Nomad job template
        // so that the Nomad client can pull the image from the Docker registry.
        username = var.username
        password = var.password
      })
    }
  }
//
```

The `split-traffic-to-green` step in this pipeline first downloads a file from the
git repository to the container performing the exec step of this pipeline using `curl`.
Then, since it is running the official Consul Docker image, the command `consul config write` is executed, which writes the downloaded configuration entry to the Consul
cluster via the API. The configuration entry looks like the below:

```hcl
Kind= "service-splitter"
Name = "app"
Splits = [
  {
    Weight = 50
    ServiceSubset = "blue"
  },
  {
    Weight = 50
    ServiceSubset= "green"
  }
]
```

This is a service splitter config entry. The different "subsets" in this configuration,
`blue`, and `green`, align with a service resolver that has already been configured
in the Consul cluster. This configuration (as a [Terraform resource](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/blob/main/terraform/main.tf#L14-L31)
using the Consul provider) is depicted below, where instances of the "app" service
tagged with `blue` are a part of the `blue` subset, and those tagged with `green` are
a part of the `green` subset:

```terraform
resource "consul_config_entry" "app_service_resolver" {
  name = "app"
  kind = "service-resolver"

  config_json = jsonencode({
    Kind          = "service-resolver"
    Name          = "app"
    DefaultSubset = "blue"
    Subsets = {
      blue = {
        Filter = "blue in Service.Tags"
      }
      green = {
        Filter = "green in Service.Tags"
      }
    }
  })
}
```

Since a Nomad job is being deployed in this pipeline, the tags on the service instances
are derived from the Nomad jobspec template. Specifically, this is configured in the
`service` stanza of the Nomad job. The `tags` are applied to the Nomad allocations
running the current active version of the Nomad job, and `canary_tags` are applied
to the canary Nomad allocations rolled out during a deployment.

```hcl
service {
  name        = "app"
  port        = "http"
  tags        = [ "blue" ]
  canary_tags = [ "green" ]
}
```

The exact number of canary Nomad allocations to be deployed, with the `canary_tags`
from the `service` stanza, is configured in the `update` stanza's `canary` field:

```hcl
update {
  max_parallel = 1
  canary       = 1
  auto_revert  = true
  auto_promote = false
  health_check = "task_states"
}
```

In summary, this pipeline will perform a canary deployment of the artifact, built
by the build pipeline, to Nomad. After the deployment to Nomad is complete, the
Consul service's service splitter is updated to split traffic 50/50 between the
new `green` instances, and the existing `blue` ones.

#### Pipeline 3: promotion-and-normalize-traffic

The third pipeline normalizes traffic to route to the `blue` instances and promotes
the canary deployment in Nomad. Updating the service splitter is done similarly to
how traffic was split in the prior pipeline.

```hcl
pipeline "promotion-and-normalize-traffic" {
  step "normalize-traffic" {
    image_url = "consul"

    use "exec" {
      command = "sh"
      args = [
        "-c",
        "curl -o normalize.consul.hcl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/main/consul/normalize.consul.hcl && consul config write -http-addr=${var.consul_address} normalize.consul.hcl",
      ]
    }
  }

  step "promote-deployment" {
    use "release" {
      prune = false
    }
  }
}

// omitted other stanzas for brevity
  release {
    use "nomad-jobspec-canary" {
      // The task group containing the app whose canary deployment will be
      // promoted is named "app", so it is explicitly specified here.
      groups = ["app"]

      // If something is wrong with the canary deployment, the input var here allows
      // the operator to fail the deployment so it is rolled back to the previous
      // version. By default, it will be promoted.
      fail_deployment = var.fail_deployment
    }
  }
//
```

The Consul config entry written in the `normalize-traffic"` step of this pipeline
directs 100% of traffic to `blue` instances once again, as depicted in the configuration
below:

```hcl
Name = "app"
Splits = [
  {
    Weight = 100
    ServiceSubset = "blue"
  },
  {
    Weight = 0
    ServiceSubset= "green"
  }
]
```

The `promote-deployment` step will promote the Nomad canary deployment, which will
update the new `green` instances to become the current active version of the Nomad
job. This will make those instances `blue`, and the instances running the previous
version of the Nomad job will be destroyed.

## Blue-Green Deployment Pipeline Run

### 1st time deployment - Blue

The first thing to do is deploy the app to Nomad for the very first time. There
will be no canary deployment, because it is the first one - canary deployments
will happen on subsequent deployments, as per the `update` stanza of the Nomad
job. The pipeline will be started using the command below, which assumes that a
remote runner is already installed, with the correct configurations to connect
to the Nomad cluster.

```shell
# NOTE: The Waypoint configuration requires variables to be set - these were set
# in the environment prior to the pipeline run. Learn more here:
# http://developer.hashicorp.com/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#environment-variables
$ waypoint pipeline run build-and-blue-green-deployment
```

At the conclusion of this pipeline run, the job is expected to be up and running
in Nomad. This can be verified in Nomad directly, or with Waypoint!

```shell
$ nomad job status -short my-app
ID            = my-app
Name          = my-app
Submit Date   = 2022-12-05T15:58:50-05:00
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Namespace     = default
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

$ waypoint status -refresh
✓ Finished refreshing app statuses in project "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green"

...

✓ Finished building report for Nomad platform
✓ Getting job info...
✓ Job "my-app" is reporting ready!


Current status for project "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green" in server context "localhost:9701".

APP   	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUS	DEPLOYMENT CHECKED	RELEASE STATUS	RELEASE CHECKED
my-app	default  	✔ READY          	now               	N/A
```

The Nomad UI also shows that the job is up and running with one allocation.

![Blue Deployment in Nomad](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/blue-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

The Waypoint UI indicates that the deployment is running too!

![Blue Deployment in Waypoint](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/blue-deployment-waypoint-ui.png)

And of course, `curl`-ing the application at the address and port will say:

```shell
# The Nomad job's task group for the application uses dynamic ports, mapping the
# container port to a random port on the host - in this case, 27283. Consul DNS
# is configured as well, enabling DNS lookups via the service name.
$ curl http://app.service.consul:27283
Hello World!
```

### Deploy a new version - Green

With a very basic HTTP server reporting "Hello World!" deployed, it's time to
make some changes to the application, like you might find in [this commit](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/commit/ef03803b7ec1feb95c83e8e5fb7c72ed663d3c2e).
Here, the application is updated to no longer say "Hello World!", but to instead
inform the user if a successful connection was made to a Postgres database. A few
environment variables, listed below, will be read by the application to make this
connection:

- USERNAME
- PASSWORD
- HOST
- PORT
- DBNAME

The `config` stanza in the Waypoint configuration file will set these variables
in the application's environment dynamically. You can learn more about this in
the [Waypoint documentation on config variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config).

Any change could be made to this application though, not just database connections.
But with a new change in place, and pushed to the git repository, it's time to
rebuild the application, start the canary deployment, and split traffic to the
new version of the application, by starting the pipeline once more:

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run build-and-blue-green-deployment
```

This time around, the Nomad UI indicates that there is indeed a canary allocation,
waiting to be promoted, but running alongside the allocation from the first deployment.

![Green Deployment Nomad UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/green-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

In Consul, the configuration entry for the service splitter has been updated to
split traffic 50% between the blue and green service resolvers.

![Green Deployment Consul UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/green-deployment-consul-ui.png)

Since the new service instance is tagged `green`, Consul DNS enables users to target
the instance with that tag using the tag name.

```shell
# As in the previous example use of curl, a dynamic port has been applied to the
# new Nomad allocation - in this case, 20263; this avoids port collision when running
# the application in two containers on the same host.
$ curl http://green.app.service.consul:20263
Connected to the database! :)
```

At the same time, the old (blue) version of the application hasn't been taken down,
so it still remains accessible to users.

```shell
$ curl http://blue.app.service.consul:27283
Hello World!
```

### Promote Deployment

With the canary deployment still idle, running the blue and green instances of
the application, and after having tested the application to verify that the changes
are what was expected, the deployment can be promoted. This will kill the allocations
running the older version of the app, and the update to the service splitter will
be made, to route all traffic to the remaining instance, tagged blue.

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run promotion-and-normalize-traffic
```

In Nomad, it is evident that there are no more canary allocations, and the app is
up and running.

![Final Deployment Nomad UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/final-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

In Consul, 100% of traffic is routed to the remaining blue instance, with the update
of the service splitter.

![Final Deployment Consul UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/final-deployment-consul-ui.png)

With this deployment completed, all users of the application will be using the
latest changes. As further changes are made to the application, the same pipelines
run in this example can be run repeatedly while incrementally expanding its functionality,
minimizing downtime and user impact.

## Further Reading

- [Waypoint Pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines)
- [Waypoint Plugins](/waypoint/docs/plugins)
- [Nomad Blue-Green Deployment](/nomad/tutorials/job-updates/job-blue-green-and-canary-deployments)
- [Terraform Provider for Waypoint](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp-dev-advocates/waypoint)
- [Consul Service Splitter Config Entries](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-splitter)
- [Consul Service Resolver Config Entries](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver)

Commit message:

Backport docs updates (#4910)
* Waypoint docs updates.

* Added title and description for tutorials index page.

* fix nav data

* empty commit

* content update

* remove content update

* remove references to empty partials

* remove one more partial reference

---------

Co-authored-by: Anthony <russo555@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/use-cases/blue-green-deployment.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Blue-Green Deployments with Waypoint, Nomad and Consul
description: |-
  Waypoint enables advanced deployment workflows like blue-green deployments, orchestrated with Nomad and Consul.
---

<Warning>

This content is part of the legacy version of Waypoint that is no longer actively maintained. For additional information on the new vision of Waypoint, check out [this blog post](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/a-new-vision-for-hcp-waypoint) and the [HCP Waypoint documentation](/hcp/docs/waypoint).

</Warning>

# Blue-Green Deployments with Waypoint, Nomad and Consul

In addition to common methods of deploying applications, HashiCorp Waypoint supports
the orchestration of advanced deployment workflows, such as blue-green deployments.
A blue-green deployment is where a new version of an application is deployed alongside
the existing version in a separate environment. While both versions are running, DNS is
updated to split traffic flowing to the application between the new and existing
versions of the app. This enables essentially nil downtime for the application
during deployments in most cases, but also enables operators to provide the experience
of the new version of an application to a certain percentage of users without
forcing all users to use the newer version. Depending upon feedback and testing
while the new version is live and processing a partial amount of traffic, a decision
is made to either promote or roll back the new version, and DNS is again updated
to route 100% of traffic to all instances running the application.

In the HashiStack, this is made possible with features from the workload orchestration
tool, HashiCorp Nomad, and the service networking tool, HashiCorp Consul. Nomad
enables operators to deploy [canary](/nomad/docs/job-specification/update#canary)
instances of a newer version of an application without destroying the existing
instances. The canary deployment can be auto-promoted when "healthy", or manually
promoted by operators. Consul plays a role as well through service configuration
entries. The [service resolver](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver)
config entry controls which instances of a service should be matched by downstream
requests made to the service, which can be [filtered](/consul/api-docs/features/filtering)
by service tags. A [service splitter](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-splitter)
config entry splits a configured percentage of traffic to resolvers. These features
of Nomad and Consul work together by the canary instances of a new Nomad job version
registering new instances of a Consul service with [canary tags](/nomad/docs/job-specification/service#canary_tags).
The tags applied to the canary instances of the service match a service resolver.
The service splitter is then updated while both the new and old application instances
are running to split some percentage of traffic between the resolver for the new
and old instances of the service.

To achieve this, a series of commands or API calls would need to be run manually,
or automated through scripts or some other means; but [Waypoint pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines)
can orchestrate this! Waypoint pipelines can execute configured phases of your app's build, deployment,
and release lifecycle, and run custom steps such as modifying Consul config
entries to configure DNS to route traffic to your canary deployment instances.

An example where this is configured is located [here](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green).
The Waypoint configuration file contains three pipelines, and each one will be
described in this use case.

## Waypoint Configuration

### Pre-Requisites

If experimenting with this use case, it will be helpful to have some familiarity
with the tools and concepts listed below.

- [Waypoint CLI](/waypoint/downloads)
  - [Context created](/waypoint/docs/server/auth#logging-in) and connected to local Waypoint server or HCP Waypoint server
- Waypoint [runner](/waypoint/docs/runner/run-manual#installing-a-runner)
  - Must be able to connect to HashiCorp Nomad & HashiCorp Consul clusters
- Waypoint [runner configuration](/waypoint/docs/runner/config)
  - Used to connect to HashiCorp Nomad
- Docker registry
  - Credentials to push a build to the registry
- [HashiCorp Consul](/consul) cluster
- [HashiCorp Nomad](/nomad) cluster
  - [Integrated with Consul cluster](/nomad/docs/integrations/consul-integration)
- [Consul DNS](/consul/tutorials/networking/dns-forwarding)
- `curl`

### Pipelines

#### Pipeline 1: build-and-blue-green-deployment

This pipeline builds the application image, and subsequently executes pipeline #2
using a nested pipeline.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-blue-green-deployment" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {
      disable_push = false
    }
  }

  step "blue-green-deployment-pipeline" {
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green"
      name    = "blue-green-deployment"
    }
  }
}
```

The `build` step uses the `build` stanza of the "app" that is configured later in
the Waypoint configuration. This build uses the build pack plugin to build an image
and then pushes it to a Docker registry.

```hcl
// omitted other stanzas for brevity
build {
    use "pack" {}

    registry {
      use "docker" {
        image = "devopspaladin/hashitalks-deploy"
        tag   = "latest"
        auth {
          // Credentials are supplied here for authentication to push to a registry.
          username = var.username
          password = var.password
        }
      }
    }
  }
//
```

#### Pipeline 2: blue-green-deployment

This pipeline deploys the build artifact to Nomad, and updates Consul to split
traffic 50/50 between new and old service instances. This pipeline is configured
separately, so that in scenarios where the code does not need to be re-built into
a new Docker image, the pipeline run time will be less, because it will run only
the deployment, and not a build.

```hcl
pipeline "blue-green-deployment" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "split-traffic-to-green" {
    image_url = "consul"

    use "exec" {
      command = "sh"
      args = [
        "-c",
        "curl -o green-splitter.consul.hcl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/main/consul/green-splitter.consul.hcl && consul config write -http-addr=${var.consul_address} green-splitter.consul.hcl",
      ]
    }
  }
}

// omitted other stanzas for brevity
  deploy {
    use "nomad-jobspec" {
      jobspec = templatefile("${path.app}/nomad/job.nomad.tpl", {
        // The registry username and password are passed to the Nomad job template
        // so that the Nomad client can pull the image from the Docker registry.
        username = var.username
        password = var.password
      })
    }
  }
//
```

The `split-traffic-to-green` step in this pipeline first downloads a file from the
git repository to the container performing the exec step of this pipeline using `curl`.
Then, since it is running the official Consul Docker image, the command `consul config write` is executed, which writes the downloaded configuration entry to the Consul
cluster via the API. The configuration entry looks like the below:

```hcl
Kind= "service-splitter"
Name = "app"
Splits = [
  {
    Weight = 50
    ServiceSubset = "blue"
  },
  {
    Weight = 50
    ServiceSubset= "green"
  }
]
```

This is a service splitter config entry. The different "subsets" in this configuration,
`blue`, and `green`, align with a service resolver that has already been configured
in the Consul cluster. This configuration (as a [Terraform resource](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/blob/main/terraform/main.tf#L14-L31)
using the Consul provider) is depicted below, where instances of the "app" service
tagged with `blue` are a part of the `blue` subset, and those tagged with `green` are
a part of the `green` subset:

```terraform
resource "consul_config_entry" "app_service_resolver" {
  name = "app"
  kind = "service-resolver"

  config_json = jsonencode({
    Kind          = "service-resolver"
    Name          = "app"
    DefaultSubset = "blue"
    Subsets = {
      blue = {
        Filter = "blue in Service.Tags"
      }
      green = {
        Filter = "green in Service.Tags"
      }
    }
  })
}
```

Since a Nomad job is being deployed in this pipeline, the tags on the service instances
are derived from the Nomad jobspec template. Specifically, this is configured in the
`service` stanza of the Nomad job. The `tags` are applied to the Nomad allocations
running the current active version of the Nomad job, and `canary_tags` are applied
to the canary Nomad allocations rolled out during a deployment.

```hcl
service {
  name        = "app"
  port        = "http"
  tags        = [ "blue" ]
  canary_tags = [ "green" ]
}
```

The exact number of canary Nomad allocations to be deployed, with the `canary_tags`
from the `service` stanza, is configured in the `update` stanza's `canary` field:

```hcl
update {
  max_parallel = 1
  canary       = 1
  auto_revert  = true
  auto_promote = false
  health_check = "task_states"
}
```

In summary, this pipeline will perform a canary deployment of the artifact, built
by the build pipeline, to Nomad. After the deployment to Nomad is complete, the
Consul service's service splitter is updated to split traffic 50/50 between the
new `green` instances, and the existing `blue` ones.

#### Pipeline 3: promotion-and-normalize-traffic

The third pipeline normalizes traffic to route to the `blue` instances and promotes
the canary deployment in Nomad. Updating the service splitter is done similarly to
how traffic was split in the prior pipeline.

```hcl
pipeline "promotion-and-normalize-traffic" {
  step "normalize-traffic" {
    image_url = "consul"

    use "exec" {
      command = "sh"
      args = [
        "-c",
        "curl -o normalize.consul.hcl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/main/consul/normalize.consul.hcl && consul config write -http-addr=${var.consul_address} normalize.consul.hcl",
      ]
    }
  }

  step "promote-deployment" {
    use "release" {
      prune = false
    }
  }
}

// omitted other stanzas for brevity
  release {
    use "nomad-jobspec-canary" {
      // The task group containing the app whose canary deployment will be
      // promoted is named "app", so it is explicitly specified here.
      groups = ["app"]

      // If something is wrong with the canary deployment, the input var here allows
      // the operator to fail the deployment so it is rolled back to the previous
      // version. By default, it will be promoted.
      fail_deployment = var.fail_deployment
    }
  }
//
```

The Consul config entry written in the `normalize-traffic"` step of this pipeline
directs 100% of traffic to `blue` instances once again, as depicted in the configuration
below:

```hcl
Name = "app"
Splits = [
  {
    Weight = 100
    ServiceSubset = "blue"
  },
  {
    Weight = 0
    ServiceSubset= "green"
  }
]
```

The `promote-deployment` step will promote the Nomad canary deployment, which will
update the new `green` instances to become the current active version of the Nomad
job. This will make those instances `blue`, and the instances running the previous
version of the Nomad job will be destroyed.

## Blue-Green Deployment Pipeline Run

### 1st time deployment - Blue

The first thing to do is deploy the app to Nomad for the very first time. There
will be no canary deployment, because it is the first one - canary deployments
will happen on subsequent deployments, as per the `update` stanza of the Nomad
job. The pipeline will be started using the command below, which assumes that a
remote runner is already installed, with the correct configurations to connect
to the Nomad cluster.

```shell
# NOTE: The Waypoint configuration requires variables to be set - these were set
# in the environment prior to the pipeline run. Learn more here:
# http://developer.hashicorp.com/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/variables/input#environment-variables
$ waypoint pipeline run build-and-blue-green-deployment
```

At the conclusion of this pipeline run, the job is expected to be up and running
in Nomad. This can be verified in Nomad directly, or with Waypoint!

```shell
$ nomad job status -short my-app
ID            = my-app
Name          = my-app
Submit Date   = 2022-12-05T15:58:50-05:00
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Namespace     = default
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

$ waypoint status -refresh
✓ Finished refreshing app statuses in project "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green"

...

✓ Finished building report for Nomad platform
✓ Getting job info...
✓ Job "my-app" is reporting ready!


Current status for project "hashitalks-deploy-blue-green" in server context "localhost:9701".

APP   	WORKSPACE	DEPLOYMENT STATUS	DEPLOYMENT CHECKED	RELEASE STATUS	RELEASE CHECKED
my-app	default  	✔ READY          	now               	N/A
```

The Nomad UI also shows that the job is up and running with one allocation.

![Blue Deployment in Nomad](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/blue-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

The Waypoint UI indicates that the deployment is running too!

![Blue Deployment in Waypoint](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/blue-deployment-waypoint-ui.png)

And of course, `curl`-ing the application at the address and port will say:

```shell
# The Nomad job's task group for the application uses dynamic ports, mapping the
# container port to a random port on the host - in this case, 27283. Consul DNS
# is configured as well, enabling DNS lookups via the service name.
$ curl http://app.service.consul:27283
Hello World!
```

### Deploy a new version - Green

With a very basic HTTP server reporting "Hello World!" deployed, it's time to
make some changes to the application, like you might find in [this commit](https://github.com/paladin-devops/hashitalks-deploy-blue-green/commit/ef03803b7ec1feb95c83e8e5fb7c72ed663d3c2e).
Here, the application is updated to no longer say "Hello World!", but to instead
inform the user if a successful connection was made to a Postgres database. A few
environment variables, listed below, will be read by the application to make this
connection:

- USERNAME
- PASSWORD
- HOST
- PORT
- DBNAME

The `config` stanza in the Waypoint configuration file will set these variables
in the application's environment dynamically. You can learn more about this in
the [Waypoint documentation on config variables](/waypoint/docs/waypoint-hcl/config).

Any change could be made to this application though, not just database connections.
But with a new change in place, and pushed to the git repository, it's time to
rebuild the application, start the canary deployment, and split traffic to the
new version of the application, by starting the pipeline once more:

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run build-and-blue-green-deployment
```

This time around, the Nomad UI indicates that there is indeed a canary allocation,
waiting to be promoted, but running alongside the allocation from the first deployment.

![Green Deployment Nomad UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/green-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

In Consul, the configuration entry for the service splitter has been updated to
split traffic 50% between the blue and green service resolvers.

![Green Deployment Consul UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/green-deployment-consul-ui.png)

Since the new service instance is tagged `green`, Consul DNS enables users to target
the instance with that tag using the tag name.

```shell
# As in the previous example use of curl, a dynamic port has been applied to the
# new Nomad allocation - in this case, 20263; this avoids port collision when running
# the application in two containers on the same host.
$ curl http://green.app.service.consul:20263
Connected to the database! :)
```

At the same time, the old (blue) version of the application hasn't been taken down,
so it still remains accessible to users.

```shell
$ curl http://blue.app.service.consul:27283
Hello World!
```

### Promote Deployment

With the canary deployment still idle, running the blue and green instances of
the application, and after having tested the application to verify that the changes
are what was expected, the deployment can be promoted. This will kill the allocations
running the older version of the app, and the update to the service splitter will
be made, to route all traffic to the remaining instance, tagged blue.

```shell
$ waypoint pipeline run promotion-and-normalize-traffic
```

In Nomad, it is evident that there are no more canary allocations, and the app is
up and running.

![Final Deployment Nomad UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/final-deployment-nomad-ui.png)

In Consul, 100% of traffic is routed to the remaining blue instance, with the update
of the service splitter.

![Final Deployment Consul UI](/img/use-cases/blue-green-deployment/final-deployment-consul-ui.png)

With this deployment completed, all users of the application will be using the
latest changes. As further changes are made to the application, the same pipelines
run in this example can be run repeatedly while incrementally expanding its functionality,
minimizing downtime and user impact.

## Further Reading

- [Waypoint Pipelines](/waypoint/docs/pipelines)
- [Waypoint Plugins](/waypoint/docs/plugins)
- [Nomad Blue-Green Deployment](/nomad/tutorials/job-updates/job-blue-green-and-canary-deployments)
- [Terraform Provider for Waypoint](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp-dev-advocates/waypoint)
- [Consul Service Splitter Config Entries](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-splitter)
- [Consul Service Resolver Config Entries](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver)
